

The Bulletin
CONSCRIPTION
APRIL 9, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
PICTURE BY E. & J. BOWMAN. BRISBANE.
EASTER
Central Group from “The Flagellation"
BY GIOVANNI BOLOGNA, 1529-1608
REPRODUCED BY COURTESY OF THE QUEENSLAND ART GALLERY
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


For discerning people ...
£~sy
9
who have a taste for luxury...
*ii
■
* t
<%, * ii** ';•••. &. »P¥'\3L %X
and an eye for value
The new Ford Galaxie 500 is becoming the overwhelming
choice of people with an eye for good taste, and an appre-
ciation of the finer things the world has to offer.
For it represents unique investment value. Apart from its
eye-holding styling, luxurious quietness, and limousine
comfort, it features the following items as just some of its
standard equipment: Feather-touch power steering; power
brakes; heater/demister; deep-pile, fully-fitted carpeting;
reversing lights; “Cushion-Ride” four-wheel coil sus-
pension; “Cruise-O-Matic” dual-range 3-speed automatic
transmission; “Challenger 289” V 8 engine with twin-
venturi carburettor.
At your Ford Dealer’s now! £2,610 tax paid.
Best Year Yet To Go Ford!
FORD GALAXIE 500
Prestige and value matched perfectly together
FORD OF AUSTRALIA


No Scotch
Improves
the flavour
of water
like .
Teachers
TEACHER'S HIGHLAND CREAM SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS—N.S.W.: Tucker & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. VICTORIA: C. & E.
Baitz Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. QUEENSLAND: Swift and Moore Pty. Limited,
Brisbane. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Limited,
Adelaide- WEST AUSTRALIA: Benson’s Liquor Sales Co., Perth.
Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
1237 Q TW36.105. IOOSc.
The Bulletin
Established 1880
APRIL 9, 1966.
VOL. 88, No. 4492
CONSCRIPTION
To the Last American 16
The Doubtful War 17
How Many Men? 18
For Volunteers Only? 19
THE GOSSIP WRITERS
Sources close to the King 22
LONDON LETTER
“Smile, Ted Baby” 33
WASHINGTON LETTER
Private Eyes in Business 35
TANNER 13 LETTERS .... 38
ROSS CAMPBELL 29
BATMAN 30
THIS AUSTRALIA
Vietnam: Trading with the Enemy;
Wool Boom 12
The New Man from Kooyong 14
Foreign Aid: 12,000,000 Starving .. 14
No Money for Aborigines? 15
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Bought Jones, £4 15s 42
Curtains for the Tivoli 43
Heroes of the TV Wasteland 44
TELEVISION: One Half So Dull .. 44
THEATRE: Berioska Dance Co. .. 45
Night of the Auk and
Arms and the Man 45
BOOKS: Kennedy, Son of Light 46
Auden’s Quest 47
Is New Guinea Beyond
Us? 48
New’ Zealand Writing 49
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Away from Tobacco 54
The Rival Copper Prices 57
Profitable Price Cutting 58
MAN ON THE LAND
Woolcombers’ Private Buying 62
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088, Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


Dear
Mr. 1.X.L.:
It’s time you met
Kathleen Loman
Kathy spreads her bread with R - s - l - a jam
.
mmm
L
wmmmM
s&S
S % <v|
, > y til
s*- ■;. $
'
m \
mztm
" i
' " •• ?
i :. m
Everybody in Kathy’s house loves jam, and they
eat lots of it. But they buy it from your
biggest competitor.
The Loman’s are a family of seven, all told,
and they’re only one of thousands in the
Sydney and Melbourne viewing areas
where your jam could be spread a
bit thicker.
The two “Nines” put your name before
the largest captive audience in the country . . .
seven nights a week. And they’re all potential
buyers—wide open to the potent selling skills of the
two “Nines” which are always at your service. Interested?
Channel
mm
W
W
' ■
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
TCN-9 Sales—Sydney: Bth Floor,
Telegraph House, Park Street. 61-9931.
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.
GTV-9 Sales—Melbourne: 22 Bendigo
Street. 42-0201.
Sydney: 54 Park Street. 61-9931.
8520


MILLIONS OF r
CAST IN CONCRETE
(to be exact, PRECAST by HUMES)
Box girders, bridge beams, piles . . . P.S.C. seating units, double tee floor units,
deck slabs . . . there is no limit to the variety of products we can cast for you in
concrete . . . prestress, post-tension or reinforce them as required . . . where
required.
Since the beginning of this decade alone we have completed orders worth millions
& millions of dollars from bowling green ditches to 20 ton bridge components.
Here are some of the projects:
m
HUMES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: 185 William St., Melbourne,
C.l, Victoria, Australia. Phone 60 0221
STATE OFFICES:
H.S.W. Park Road, Regents Park. 644 2351 • S.A. 78 West Beach Road, Keswick! 97 1011'
VIC. 12th Floor, 205 William St.; Melb. 60 0221 W.A. Salvado Road, Subiaco. 87 2311
QLD. 189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. 4 5881 TAS. 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 3 2741 _
HC/lIB3X
<X2


■ ■
«*• *: ■•: %. ■■ v* * ; ■ ' ~: ■
WUKKmm
: : .‘ ' ; P-
r*
*:|
*****■
m&m*
:e
. v» «• H! <?**■>
Si *#-<*4 ’ f./ *
!&r«®
**
i*
m
il
■<v~*
M
**
*****
m *f* t. »« 4 «, >•# *4 .«,*•*■*
i
♦♦*;kt***
**«>
«S 5?
**»
1
*¥#*** ?■****
■SCUrSfea
U^V^r
Me
»■**
%**.
ft**#
ff#4
Sr&as
f*4>£
X » > *$&W*S
•***»* *
**>*>4* #•**♦?
4*
4#
w#«Tf»Tn* * * *"*
##4'4 •« «•** * f'ilf^'
*>## f 4# # Pt?-**?Z, * e
#**
»# #4444* * f f
###*#»*#***; ffji-
.«.**<*■"*
44
* *
iM*
15
I have the children to consider
I want to give them a good education. Well, Ampol helps there, giving grants
to universities, spending money on the progress of knowledge.
My main concern is the kind of future they can expect. I want them free to
choose the profession that suits them ... not forced to take just any job. And I
want security and prosperity for them.
Well, that is the kind of life Ampol is helping to build. Its earnings stay in Aus-
tralia and are spent on developing Australia, on making us a stronger, richer
nation... because Ampol is owned and operated by Australians for Australians.
It’s worth it... buying Ampol.
BUILD AUSTRALIA, BUY AUSTRALIAN, BUY AMPOL.


PAPER FOR PROGRESS NO. 6 OF A SERIES
y<
bt
V.
&
Si
.vV
«s
w
2
si#
SSS ; S;
■■: ■ {■: isim
w
' r
jK
■V,
$8
BSC
w
m
w
&
i^4»
N&
NX\
»><
I ft
r/
s &mw&x
M
A
rs*
«s
/n#m
u
GROWING” MORE PAPER FOR MORE PEOPLE!
Australia’s population is growing fast . . . but A.P.M.
is planting ‘paper’ trees even faster! Every year A.P.M.
plants millions of trees to help meet Australia’s future
paper requirements. Our total population is about 11
million; but since A.P.M.'s tree planting programme
began in 1950, over 45 million trees have been
planted about 4 trees for every Australian. A.P.M.
is continuing to plant trees in Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland at a rate many times greater
than our growth in population.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTtt
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate,
South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals.


■
■mm
m
I
100
jr m
ohs
ASPIRIN
o€>
Glass bottles? Guess again.
If you make any bottled product, the time
has come to look hard at the advantages
of packing it in something new. Geon rigid
PVC —polyvinyl chloride.
A Geon bottle weighs 80 per cent less,
doesn’t shatter, can be moulded in prac-
tically any size or shape appropriate to its
name or use, comes as transparent as you-
know-what or coloured. Geon also prevents
the oxygen transfer and deterioration per-
mitted by some plastics, it’s proof against
most chemicals which attack other plastics.
More important, a Geon bottle doesn’t have
to be returned.
Rigid Geon vinyl could be the answer to
many of your problems. Wouldn’t it be in-
teresting to find out? Call or write to-
day to B.F. Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty.
Ltd., Department D. (Box P.O. 2538),
G.P.0., Melbourne.
A job for vinyl
is a job for Geon
B E Goodrich
Polyvinyl chloride resins for industry. B.F. Goodrich-CSR. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
MS 978


ONE MORE
WEEK
Absent friend
WHERE was the Minister for External
Affairs, Paul Hasluck, when his statement
on Vietnam was being vigorously debated
in both Houses of Federal Parliament?
If you read the fillers in the foreign pages
of the daily newspapers, you would
know he was in New Delhi attending an
ECAFE conference. Which may have
seemed, to harassed Prime Minister Holt,
to be the best place for him.
Dead wood
AFTER what the managing director of
Anthony Horderns, Frank Munro, des-
cribed as “three months of effort”, the
Port Jackson fig on the Razorback Moun-
tain near Sydney is healthy again. The
fig has long been the symbol of Horderns
and taken to illustrate its slogan, “While
I live I’ll grow.” It recently seemed to be
dying but expert cutting away of dead
wood and other treatment has now res-
tored it. Shareholders, who have not had
a dividend since November, 1961, may
feel it would be nice if similar treatment
could get a similar response from the
family store.
Light duties
FOR THE TAXPAYER’S record: Fed-
eral Parliament has passed only four bills
through both Houses of Parliament this
year. These were the ACT Representation
Bill, the Loan (Airlines Equipment)
Bill, the Customs Tariff Validation Bill
and the Australian Coastal Shipping Com-
mission Bill. Another six bills have been
introduced but there is not an extensive
programme for the next session. Parlia-
ment had been sitting for four weeks
when it rose last Thursday. When it
resumes on April 19 it is expected to
sit for four weeks before the long winter
break.
All round, the present Parliament is
creating something of a record for the
fewest hours in session and the smallest
amount of legislation put through.
Standard views
MANUFACTURERS of armaments are
not the only ones likely to profit by
Australia’s commitment to Vietnam.
Soldiers fighting in Vietnam are being
asked to add danger loadings to their
insurance policies. The chairman of the
Life Offices Association, Mr N. Prentis,
has gone on record as saying: “A service-
man in a combat area is exposed to a
higher risk. It would be normal for an
insurance company to load his policy.
Life Offices take fairly standard views in
these things. We have to work to actua-
rial principles. If there is an extra hazard
involved, it must mean a higher
premium.”
Selling mission
THAT travelling salesman, Yevgeny Yev-
tushenko, was selling his poetry for Sun
Books at the rate of about 1000 copies a
day during his visit to Australia.
A lot of Camelot
WE READ once about an actor in
America whose whole 20-year-old career
had been in “Oklahoma!”. Melbourne
designer John Truscott may become
something of the same case. Truscott did
the very elaborate sets and costumes for
J. C. Williamson’s production of the
Lerner and Loewe musical, “Camelot”.
When “Camelot” was produced in Lon-
don by Robert Helpmann, Truscott was
again the designer. Now he has been
signed to do sets and costumes for the
film version, to be directed by Joshua
Logan with script by Alan Jay Lerner.
Commercial
NEW GUINEANS, who have struggled
to gain an education, may not be finding
the rewards very rich, but it seems that
some of the business acumen of the white
man has rubbed off on the more primitive
people of the Territory.
When the deputy director of the Art
Gallery of NSW, Mr Tony Tuckson,
was in New Guinea recently he was sur-
prised, while travelling up the Sepik
River, to see an outboard motor-boat,
loaded with carved masks, travelling in
the same direction as he was, instead of
towards the mouth of the river and
civilisation Mr Tuckson learnt that the
merchandise was being taken up the
river to a spot with a landing-strip.
"Really, darling, Desmond and I are
absolutely at our wits' end over the
moral issues of conscription..."
Americans and other tourists, probably
in the conviction that they are acquiring
more authentic primitive art than they
can buy in Port Moresby or the larger
centres, fly to the area for the day. The
natives see to it that that particular
market is kept well supplied.
Mr Tuckson was gathering background
material for the exhibition of Melanesian
art which will open at the Art Gallery
of NSW on April 20. The exhibition
will comprise 382 pieces, 100-odd from
the Australian Museum, Sydney, and
about the same number from a private
Sydney collector, Mr S. G. Moriarty.
Smaller selections have come from Port
Moresby Museum and other museums in
the eastern States.
Another evidence of commercialism
which Mr Tuckson found was one native
with a hut full of objects, each
with a price ticket, and who was not
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Priests never have been in agreement.
Only once did they agree when they
crucified Christ.
—Monsignor Peter Paul Saydon, of Malta.
To buy into this business of our sales
of wheat and wool to Communist China
would create a lot of misconstrued ideas.
Why wake the matter up?
—V. A. O'Neill, Sen. of United Farmers
and Woolgrowers' Association of NSW.
The moment politics becomes dull,
democracy is in danger.
—British MP, Quintin Hogg.
The politician's life is not an easy one.
—H. C. Mallam, MLA.
A la recherche du ’’Times" perdu.
—Headline in "The Times", London,
It you don't want me as leader you
have only to say so.
—Mr Calwell to Mr Whitlam.
What Catholics need is some intelligent
Catholic as distinct horn anti-Communist
moral guidance from the hierarchy.
—"The Catholic Worker".
An estimated 400 young people aged
between 17 and 21 were killed on Aus-
tralian roads last year, but only tour
Australians under 21 have been killed in
Vietnam since troops were sent there.
—Minister for Shipping Freeth.
Four-letter words are nowadays un-
requited everywhere except on television.
—Truman Capote.


a
in
Hi
an
□
*k>
-5
tumli]
r 1 ®
on their
second visit
to Sydney
most people
stay at
Chevron
those who
miss it the
first time
are sorry...
those who
miss it the
second
are few
Why? It’s Australia’s most complete hotel
• Chevron is ideally situated: the only hotel in the
“life” of Sydney, with sweeping views of the harbour
from every room • All rooms and suites 24-hour
service, soundproof, air-conditioned with ultra-modern
conveniences including bathroom, remote-control TV,
radio, background music—even choice of soft or hard
beds • Variety of restaurants and bars • Recognised
best dining facilities in Australia • Finest wine and
beverage cellar in Australia (from vintage local and
imported wines to 25 types of beer) • Topline inter-
national entertainers • Masseurs, beauty salon, travel
agencies and bank on premises • Avis Rent A Car
at door • Ample parking • plus many more features—
yet at rates comparable with standard hotels. x
Macleay Street, Potts Point, Sydney. Phone 35-0433
I
s?
SYDNEY
... and the most complete car
rental service
Avis has the widest range
of latest model cars, prop-
erly insured—and there’s
no hidden charges. Rent
it here and leave it at
any of 130 Avis depots
around Australia.
AVIS
RENTA CAR


prepared to bargain at all. Mr Tuckson
also found native artists who were carv-
ing traditional posts for the new local
councils, set up by the Territory Admini-
stration. He was offered one of these
posts for $2OOO, the price, he believes,
to collectors and not to the councils.
Mr Tuckson said he felt that it was
now probably too late for Australia to
make good any gaps in collections of
Melanesian art. Most Australian anthro-
pologists, who had worked in New
Guinea, were social rather than cultural
anthropologists and collecting tended to
be a hobby rather than a systematic enter-
prise with them. The Germans and Dutch,
in their time in the area, had gathered
great collections together. The Natural
History Museum in Chicago had a com-
prehensive collection dating from before
the First World War. The Swiss have
large collections; the Basle Museum re-
cently sent a party on what it called a
“mopping-up” operation.
The British Museum also had a good
collection of Melanesian art, some of
which was on show at the Adelaide
Festival. The British Museum, Mr Tuck-
son said, acquired most of its collection
in the colonial days when it would not
have occurred to Australians that these
objects might ever have any value for
them.
Mr Tuckson said that showing
primitive art raised problems not thought
of in exhibiting Western art. One bother
was the extreme fragility of some of the
pieces, which might have been thoroughly
white-anted in their native setting. “Some
of the New Ireland masks are like fret-
work,” he said. Another problem is that
few of the objects are meant to stand
up or to be hung. In native huts they
just lean on each other or against the
walls, something which won’t exactly do
for a gallery.
Confusions
MANY AUSTRALIANS undoubtedly
are troubled and few are proving
troublesome about the issues of our
commitment to Vietnam and the con-
scription of national servicemen for
overseas service. Many people, too, feel
it regrettable that the two issues have
become confused. However, the over-
simplifications of some of the Roman
Catholic hierarchy (“The Government
knows best”) may suggest that in their
minds the issues may be confused with
the possibilities of further State Aid for
Church schools.
Salvation
HE MIGHT have phrased it a little
better, but the NSW Chief Secretary,
E. A. Willis, last week said in Parlia-
ment that his officers “had been look-
ing at the ‘King’s Cross Whisper’ and
other publications for some time”. Willis
said his department was “troubled by
the wording of the present statute and
by decisions given on appeal by Judges”.
“This,” he said, “gives rise to the feeling
that a prosecution could fail and result
only in publicity for the newspaper.”
Now, apparently, they not only want to
save us from ourselves; they want to
save us from the course of justice.
By design
A DESIGN ARTS centre has just been
opened in Brisbane. Private enterprise,
in the persons of Brisbane architect
E. J. A. Weller and Danish-born Mrs
Lilly Hitch, are behind it. Mr Weller H
sponsor of the centre, backed by an
advisory panel of architects, art gallery
directors and others, and Mrs Hitch is
its first director.
The centre is in an Elizabeth Street
basement. It is not particularly large,
but is well-planned and designed both
for allocating space and for display.
“Architects have felt the need for a
place where good design as such can
be found,” Mr Weller said. “Brisbane
has lacked a permanent centre, not
limited to either the fine arts or to applied
arts. We are showing paintings without
being in competition with existing gal-
leries.”
RUSHTON’S AUSTRALIANS... 8


THIS AUSTRALIA
VIETNAM I
Trading with the Enemy
Sooner or later the Holt Government has to face up squarely to a basic moral
issue: What should it do about trading with Communist China and North Vietnam,
both countries described by the Government as either active or potential enemies?
Prime Minister Harold Holt, almost
perfunctorily, brushed aside two ques-
tions on the subject from Labor parlia-
mentarians last week. These questions
pointed out that goods produced and
manufactured by Australian hands and
despatched overseas with Government
approval were assisting regimes which
the Government claimed were seeking to
kill or maim Australian servicemen sent
to Vietnam.
The first question was asked by the
Chairman of the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party Defence Committee, Mr Pat
_ Galvin (SA). Galvin, a Right-winger, to
my knowledge has never challenged the
Government’s basic reason for sending
troops to Vietnam, which is that Com-
munist aggression in the area must be
confronted in Australia’s long-term
interests.
Galvin asked: “In view of the recent
statement by Marshal Chen, the Chinese
Foreign Minister, that China is assisting
North Vietnam in its war effort by send-
ing to that country grains, textiles and
weapons of war, vill he (Holt) reconsider
the advisability of Australia continuing
to sell to China wheat, wool and metals
which undoubtedly assist the North Viet-
namese and the Vietcong in their fight
against Australian servicemen in the
Vietnam war?”
Holt’s reply revealed his debating
agility and an argument as weak as water.
Said Holt: “If members opposite are
opposed to Australia selling wheat and
wool to Communist China, they should
say so clearly and unequivocally.” This
was no reply at all. Added Holt: “We
have come to the conclusion that as these
commodities (wool and wheat) are in free
supply on the world markets and could
be secured by China from those markets,
Australia, which has its own economic
problems in providing for its defence and
development, on a balance of national
advantage, is able to go forward with
this policy.”
As I see it, that argument is not worth
the space devoted to it in Hansard (page
729, March 30, 1966).
If you followed this argument to its
logical conclusion, you could say that
as China or North Vietnam can produce
unlimited quantities of such arms as
rifles, machine guns, grenades and such
weapons of war from Soviet Russia,
Czechoslovakia, or even some industrial
country outside the Communist orbit,
you are entitled to supply rifles, machine
guns, grenades, etc., to China or North
Vietnam for use against Australian
servicemen, provided the financial
arrangements were sufficiently satis-
factory to be worthwhile in providing
for Australia’s defence and develop-
ment.
If the Government did refuse to supply
wool and wheat to China, China might
find a loophole through which it might
get access to these commodities (as
Russia did during the Petrov period when
it was ostensibly not buying wool from
Australia). But there is a difference be-
tween an opponent outwitting you and
you, as a Government, supplying him
with official approval with the means
whereby an enemy is assisted to kill or
maim your fellow countrymen in open
battle.
The second Labor question on this
subject came from the Deputy Opposition
Leader, Gough Whitlam. Whitlam
pointed out that New Zealand had
decided that it would end its trade with
North Vietnam on the ground that while
such trade was small and of no strategic
importance, it did play a part in sus-
taining the economy of North Vietnam.
Whitlam asked: “Has the Australian
Government decided to end Australia's
trade with North Vietnam?” Holt re-
plied: “There has been no change in the
attitude previously indicated” (which was
that trade with North Vietnam would
continue).
Whatever technical arguments there
might be about continuing trade with
Communist China (which is yet only a
theoretical and potential enemy with no
force actually confronting Australian
servicemen), the same argument cannot
be put forward about North Vietnam.
North Vietnamese regulars are face to
face with Australians fighting in Viet-
nam.
In the Adjournment Debate on Thurs-
day, Galvin was justifiably scathing in
his condemnation of the Government for
its double standards. He claimed—and
his claim was not challenged—that Aus-
tralia was sending North Vietnam in-
edible tallow, an essential ingredient in
the manufacture of high explosives.
“Those high explosives would un-
doubtedly be used not only on the battle-
fields of Vietnam but also in the streets
of Saigon,” Galvin declared. “Wherever
you send Australian troops in Vietnam 1 ,
whether to the battlegrounds in the
jungles or to the streets of Saigon, you
will find explosive made with Australian
tallow that has been sold directly to the
enemy.”
Some Government members said that
this was the “lowest” speech Galvin had
ever made in Parliament. But Galvin had
already replied to this charge by con-
temptuously asking, in effect, “how low
can a country get?”
The uneasiness about the Govern*
ment’s double standard approach to its
Vietnamese involvement is not confined
to Labor members. Quite a number of
Government supporters believe that there
is a moral issue involved which trans-
cends economic considerations. And
some of the Government supporters are
from the Country Party whose electoral
supporters produce the commodities
which are despatched to Vietnam for
use against Australians. So far Mr Jim
Killen is the only Government supporter
who has come out in public opposition
to the Government on this question.
Sooner or later the Government has
to face up squarely to the morality of
its attitude. It must produce better
reasons than it has so far to justify the
supply of materials essential for the pro-
duction of high explosives to the country
whose forces are facing Australian
servicemen at the other end of a rifle.
ALAN REID
VIETNAM II
Wool Boom
If trading with the enemy in Vietnam
is highly profitable to Australia, doing
business with our allies is even better.
True, the Vietnam war has not brought
anything like the boom in Australian
commodity exports that took place in
the Korean conflict.
Then the US set off on a huge buying
and stockpiling spree that disrupted the
world trade in almost every metal, most
fibres and some foods for years after-
wards (and which still influences world
comrhodity prices because of continued
disposals from these stockpiles).
Nevertheless, this time there have been
some significant increases in US spending
in Australia for defence purposes
particularly of wool quite apart from
the implied benefits to Australia’s balance
of payments that should come when the
“economic offensive” gets really under
way in Vietnam with Australia being a
major supplier of the goods required.
The increased defence demand for
wool in the US, because of Vietnam, has
come at a time when the American sheep
population has fallen to its lowest level
for more than a century. As a result,


imports (mainly from Australia) are the
highest since, but not nearly so high as in
the Korean war boom. Last financial
year, exports to the US more than
doubled. This uptrend continued in the
first seven months of 1965-66, when the
US purchased $A42.5 million worth of
wool, up $6.5 million on the correspond-
ing part of 1964-65.
The importance of this to the Aus-
tralian wool trade (and the economy as
a whole) is that despite this increase, a
severe fall in the value of purchases from
other countries meant that total Aus-
tralian wool exports in the period fell
from $480.6 million to $445.1 million.
Only Japan ($145.6 million) and the UK
($44.6 million) bought more than the
The American military demand for
£
wool is expected to step up. Colonel
Robert M. Ferrell, chief of the Clothing
and Textile Division, Procurement Direc-
torate, at the Personnel Support Centre
in Philadelphia, warned recently of grow-
ing military need. Addressing a wool
manufacturers’ association, Colonel Fer-
rell said that military requirements for
woollens and worsteds would take 15 to
20 per cent of the industry’s output in
the second quarter of this year.
Armed forces requirements are now
taking US'wool goods output, and be-
fore 1966 is over this figure is expected
to reach 10 per cent. The heavy US
buying in Australia has not only gone to
supply growing defence needs, but Ame-
rican stocks have also built up. How-
ever, the US Department of Agriculture
expects imports in 1966 to about equal
that of 1965, while usage will rise even
further, indicating that stocks will fall,
The lift in use provides some compen-
sation for drought-hit east Australian
growers, but may bring problems of its
own.
Swelling demand will meet shrinking
supplies of good-quality wool, and prices
have already begun to rise as a result.
The inroads made by synthetics during
and after the price rise in 1963 and
1964 showed the importance of reason-
ahly stable markets,
As with so many commodities, the
fabricating industry is continually weigh-
ing costs of a change to another, more
dependable, raw' material against the cost
of price fluctuations and disruptions to
supply.
JOHN SALMON
Tanner
"Some of those who oppose conscription are coming dangerously close to treason."


BY-ELECTION
The New Man from Kooyong
Despite public propaganda to the contrary, ALP officials privately admit their
disappointment over the results of the Kooyong by-election. The result provides the
Government with further assurance that the ALP cannot defeat it in any election in
which foreign policy and defence are made the chief issues.
The 7.3 per cent swing against the
Government is only meaningful in terms
of the following considerations:
• Half of the swing against the Govern-
ment was directed to the DLP which
supports the Government’s defence
policies;
• The DLP normally loses rather than
gains votes at by-elections;
• In 1963 the Communist candidate at
Kooyong gained 1.5 per cent of the
vote. This time no Communist stood
and presumably nearly half of the 3.4
per cent increase in the ALP vote may
be accounted for by transferring the
Communist vote;
• The absence of Sir Robert Menzies
and his replacement by a man 27
years old must account for some of
the Liberal losses;
• The ALP campaigned more strongly
in Kooyong than ever before;
• Governments normally lose votes in
by-elections.
The Government may take further
comfort from the fact that compared
with the Kooyong figures in the 1964
Senate election the Liberal Party lost
only .2 per cent of the vote in the by-
election. This figure is in some ways
more realistic than that obtained from
comparing the 1966 results with the 1963
House of Representatives voting since it
withdraws the variable created by Sir
Robert Menzies’ personal following.
On the other hand, the ALP result may
have been affected by the fact that its
weekend candidate, Mr William Cooper,
although a loyal follower of the ALP
Central Executive, was not a very strong
contender. Also, the ALP almost cer-
tainly suffered some backlash of feeling
in middle-class Kooyong after the
irresponsible behavior of anti-conscrip-
tion campaigners at Mr Holt’s meeting
at Kew Town Hall last week. Photo-
graphs of bearded youths waving banners
and hysterical women throwing marbles
do not encourage the bourgeoisie to cast
out Governments.
Victorian ALP officials who privately
admit that the Kooyong vote was a dis-
appointment also claim that the recent
dispute between Mr Whitlam and the
Federal Executive was the chief cause of
their not polling better. (Of course, they
blame Mr Whitlam for this.)
An additional pleasure for Mr Holt is
the knowledge that in young Mr Andrew
Peacock he is gaining a back-bencher of
genuine ability and intelligence, and a
first-class politician. Mr Peacock has
held most important positions in the
State Liberal Party with distinction, in-
eluding the post of president. Well
educated in foreign affairs and domestic
politics, he suffers from no obvious
eccentricities: there are no Reds under
his bed; he has no special love for private
enterprise, the Empire, or the Queen.
Although he is sometimes described as a
young Menzies, his real political model
is much more likely to be the late John
F. Kennedy.
So long as too much is not expected
of him too early (and he does not expect
too much of himself), Andrew Peacock
can look forward to a smooth ride from
back bench to committee to Cabinet. The
big prize itself may not be beyond him.
MHR, State Liberal president, company
director, successful solicitor not bad
for 27. And Peacock has bigger plans
yet.
FOREIGN AID
12,000,000 Starving
A sympathetic world is understandably confused about just how serious is India’s
food shortage. While India’s Food Minister C. Subramaniam was in Washington
stating his country’s need for aid on a crash-programme basis, Dr Ewell, a UN
economist, was talking of the possibility of twelve million starving to death this year.
Inevitably, the publication of these
reports back in India did not make for
peace and calm. Buying up and hoarding
of grain and popular panic in some States
has followed. What are the facts?
The Indian Prime Minister, Mrs Indira
Gandhi, says that they are under severe
stress. “But,” she says, “when you talk
of famine, if you mean that people will
drop like flies as they did in years gone
by, then that will not happen. But if you
mean that there will be hunger and hard-
ship and suffering in some areas, then we
must be ready to face that.”
A correlation of all reports and data
which reluctant ministries release indi-
cate that India expects to need an im-
portation of a staggering 19 million to
21 million tons of food grains this year.
Most likely the wheat will come. Even
handling and distributing at the ports and
on rail and road will tax India’s facilities
to a degree not previously experienced.
On British television the Indian Food
Minister said that the real job was to
help India to help herself, that is, to
grow more grain. There is no shortage
of land. It is the yield that lacks.
A very encouraging Commonwealth
venture in developing India’s capacity
for self-help has been led off by Canada.
Thirteen Canadian farmers, led by Paul
Babey, president of the Alberta Farmers’
Union, went out to India recently at their
own expense, to see how they could help
with means and methods. I met these
sage, unsentimental men both going and
coming. Their practical eyes saw behind
the statistics. Babey, to whom I talked
at London Airport, and Bob Muir, the
Albertan whose inspiration had much to
do with the venture, readily gave their
findings. “If you just give food aid alone
it can worsen the situation out there,”
said Babey, “for farmers and Government
begin to rely on others’ gifts making up
their shortfall.” He thinks that Canada,
Australia and such favored lands should
invest large sums in India to develop
indigenous industries and enterprises.
This would increase the gross national
product which in turn would lift the pur-
chasing power of the whole country.
They do need help with foreign ex-
change. Any commodity needing foreign
exchange just cannot be bought due to the
chronic shortage. It is reported that half
of India’s factories are idle for this reason.
Experts say that, properly developed,
India could be a food surplus country.
Some of Muir’s statistics were as follows:
The average rice yield per acre in India
is .8 of a ton: the world average is 1.4
tons per acre; in Japan it’s 2.5 tons. In
some parts of India they even get six
tons per acre. If the average Indian
yield were lifted to the world average
there would be no need for any rice
imports.
The Canadian farmers agree that what
India also urgently needs is not sophisti-
cated Western-style machinery but simple
farming implements. Most Indian farmers
could not afford the diesel oil to run a
tractor let alone buy one. They do need,
for example, steel ploughs to replace their
wooden ones with which they have farm-
ed for centuries. With a wooden plough
you can only scratch the surface, not
truly turn over the soil. And the top
soil is largely unfertilised because at least
half of the cow dung is dried and used
for cooking fuel. Such is the poverty.


Muir saw some inexpensive (five US
dollars) 6"-bladed ploughs which filled
the bill.
Now I have a suggestion to place be-
fore the Australian people. We in Aus-
tralia have struck an iron-ore bonanza.
Could we as a nation make this practical
gesture: pay the equivalent amount re-
quired to set aside iron-ore enough to
produce the steel and in turn to fashion
two million steel ploughs for India? This
would mean an average of four ploughs
per Indian village throughout the land.
We could either make the ploughs or
play our part by giving the ore to Japan
and letting them contribute the labor and
skill. In fact, this joint effort could be
even more telling.
It need not be a free gift, which in
any case might offend the proud peasant.
These ploughs could be sold to the Indian
Government for rupees which we could
leave in the country in a balance to be
drawn on for internal development for
the nation's good. This is at present done
with the American wheat shipments. The
farmers would pay a nominal amount
for their ploughs and that money would
go back to the Government for use in the
rural areas, to build roads and dig wells.
This “Ploughs for India” plan could be
a more fundamental gesture than food
for India, important though that is at
this pressing moment. Could Canberra
or the Australian farmers or the
mining concerns project and carry
through such a scheme? It has possibili-
ties. It could be a pattern of the way the
Commonwealth should function.
GORDON WISE
WELFARE
No Money for Aborigines?
Barely a year after the opening of Sydney’s Foundation for Aboriginal Affairs,
it is facing a crisis which may close it down. ,
The urgently needed renovations now
in progress, costing $32,000, will eat up
the last of the Foundation’s money. An
appeal for $BO,OOO, launched in February
by Professor W. R. Geddes, Professor of
Social Anthropology at the University of
Sydney, has so far brought in $lBOO
and the response is unlikely to improve,
despite 600 letters sent out to business
firms and private donors.
This is all the more disappointing at
this time, as the Foundation is beginning
to realise its ideal of becoming a com-
munity and welfare centre for Sydney’s
12,000 Aborigines. The manager, Charles
Perkins, estimated that 90 per cent of
the city’s Aborigines come in contact
with the Foundation. Interstate Aborig-
ines, from as far away as Darwin, go
straight there for help. The drought has
forced many more Aboriginal people to
the city and increased the flow to the
Foundation’s offices; Perkins and his staff
of three find work fo: five men every
day. Aborigine Roy Carroll, a former
boxer, recently became the Foundation’s
field officer, but plans for further ex-
panding the social welfare programme
must now be limited. The overhead c.f
keeping the three-storey building open is
$3OO a week.
In addition to the cost of renovations,
$BOOO of the $36,000 the Foundation
holds in Commonwealth bonds is ear-
marked for a scholarship scheme, which
will take four primary school children on
to matriculation standard.
Sydney accountant Mr John Dalton,
the Foundation treasurer, said that
although the balance sheet would con-
sequently show a deficit, the Foundation
executive had decided to go ahead with
rebuilding the former funeral parlors.
“We had to satisfy certain council regu-
lations, and also carry out our original
aim of providing Aboriginal people with
a first-rate place,” he said. Mr Dalton
and other Foundation members criticise
the apathy of the public and the Govern-
ment. When the Foundation started
operating 20 months ago. the Renshaw
Government helped their public appeal
with a $20,000 grant. Today the need
for Government subsidy and public
finance is becoming desperate.
The Foundation’s problems began
when their 1964 Christmas door-knock
appeal fell short of the $320,000 target
by half. Out of the $160,000 raised,
$20,000 went to a professional fund-
raising organisation (who fixed their fee
as a percentage of the target) and
$16,000 went in other campaign ex-
penses. $16,000 was given to the
Aboriginal Children’s Advancement
Society to establish a hostel at Suther-
land (according to an arrangement which
amalgamated their appeal with the Foun-
dation’s). The purchase of the Founda-
tion’s George Street headquarters cost
$60,000. In this way the money raised
to run the Foundation was almost com-
pletely swallowed up before their real
work began.
“The situation is very grim at the
present moment,” said Aboriginal social
worker Miss Joyce Mercy, in her office
at the Foundation last week. The night
before she had to refuse food to a
destitute Aboriginal couple because the
Foundation’s stock of tinned meat and
vegetables was finished.
JUDITH RICH
Briefly...
The Vietnam conscription fuss con-
tinued in and out of Federal
Parliament. Professional and amateur
criminals were very active in Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane, student prank-
sters in Melbourne and Perth. A Wit-
tenoom asbestos miner, charged with
wilful damage to beer glasses, was eating
one when arrested. Mr McMahon said
the economy was stable. The national
wage cases were adjourned to April 9,
and a Queensland wages and prices hear-
ing to an unfixed date. NSW MPs gave
themselves substantial increases. Con-
tracts were let for the first half of 126
buildings at Townsville’s new $26 mil-
lion Army base. SA set up a liquor hour
inquiry. A Privy Council decision made
road transport “border-hopping” legal
and 600 pending Queensland prosecu-
tions illegal. Of 41 athletes as the basis
of the Commonwealth Games team, 20
are from Victoria. Chrysler and Volks-
wagen released new models. The Queen
Mother visited parts of WA.
★
Among the State Premiers, WA’s Mr
Brand is to visit Japan’s steel mills, SA’s
Mr Walsh left on a world trip to explore
natural gas uses, Tasmania's Mr Reece
entered hospital with a kidney ailment.
Dr Clyde Fenton, OBE, flying doctor
pioneer, retired. Obits including Frank
Legge of the ABC, King Kam of Kitava,
and a Sydney gangster blown up in a
stolen car. Hobart City Council took
over the pride of the Southern Tasmania
Lawn Tennis Association, the $lBO,OOO
Domain Tennis Centre. Brisbane’s
Council decided to go ahead with a
Civic Square, Melbourne’s to buy its
Lord Mayor a $24,000 Rolls, and Syd-
ney’s to oppose the possible loss of 50
per cent of its area. Unveiled, founda-
tion stones for Sydney’s Macquarie
University and Canberra’s Australian
National Library.
★
Australia offered Indonesia’s flood
victims $200,000 of rice to be bought
elsewhere as Australia’s crop is com-
mitted. Amoco offered $lO,OOO sponsor-
ship of the Davis Cup. Ryan was sen-
tenced to death for murder of a Pent-
ridge warder, and Walker found guilty
of manslaughter. NSW Governor Sir
Roden Cutler visited the drought-stricken
north-west, and a third storage dam was
ordered for Canberra. The Overseas
Telecommunications Commission said
Pacific satellite television would be too
costly. The Queensland Retailers’ As-
sociation called for an end to “two-to-a-
customer” specials offset by other price
increases.




CONSCRIPTION
To the Last American
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Does sending national servicemen to Viet-
nam raise special moral questions? Would
volunteers be better? Will Australians fight
to the last drop of American blood?
It is a minor mercy in a country of
drearily predictable political re-
sponses that the anti-conscriptionists
are not identical with the pro-Com-
munists and isolationists who totally
oppose our commitment to Vietnam.
The latter are now linked in protest with
examiners of the moral question.
The old editorial cant about the
serious differences amongst men of good
conscience over the Western military
presence in South-East Asia —cant with
which nearly all agreed and few believed
—has suddenly become relevant in Aus-
tralia. Some men of manifestly good
conscience are morally disturbed, but,
whatever most of them think, their worry
cannot be only that an evil and totally
illegitimate means has been chosen to
serve a legitimate end.
For one thing, if they believe this so
strenuously, why have they not been
concerned to attack our ally, the USA,
for pouring conscript troops into Viet-
nam? And if the “moral question” is
paramount, where were they, and those
like them, when the United States began
unloading its conscript divisions in Aus-
tralia and the Pacific from 1942? Aus-
tralia will fight to the last US conscript
for the purity of her moral conscience!
Yet, honest men are concerned with
this moral question of conscription and
partly for political reasons. In the first
place, many people find it difficult to
estimate just how seriously the Govern-
ment takes the Vietnam campaign.
Officially, we are now in a state of war;
We are still trading heavily with the
country which Government spokesmen
claim is the main political force behind
the Vietnam struggle; no substantial
sacrifices have been asked of the popula-
tion at large. Yevtushenko wows them
with his cultural Beatle act at the
Adelaide Festival; Graham Kennedy
thrills Moomba with an intrepid display
of desk-driving; the Prime Minister dons
his snorkel; and Woolworths announce
record profits. A business -as - usual
society, except, of course, for the few
unlucky ones, the boys whose marbles
come out of the Tatts barrel and are
unfortunately sturdy enough to pass the
physical.
Further, it is generally felt by the chief
inspectors of the moral question that
there might have been other alternatives
to conscription. The Government’s
recruiting drives over the past few years
have been vigorous but not spectacular,
and the calls, at least until very recently,
have centred on the pay, conditions,
training and adventure the Army offers
rather than on national or international
emergency (See Sunny Vietnam and be
paid for it. We even find the fares!).
And then there is the “Dirty War”
Bad enough sending our boys to any
war, but sending conscripts, boys of only
20 or so, to a dirty war! As the leaders
of the Opposition put it: some Govern-
ments will do anything to curry favor
w'ith international capitalism. To cap it
off, the boys are voteless: the moral
question apparently wears very thin by
this stage and needs some more political
reinforcement. A lot has been made of
the votelessness of the conscripts. Would
the moral question alter if they became
enfranchised? Probably not, but one
never can tell with moral questions. Just
at the point when they should be decisive
they start to need all kinds of political
reinforcement.
Bishop Moyes, the Anglican Bishop
from Armidale, says: “It is unethical of
the Government to take young people
who have no vote and send them to fight
overseas where no war has been
declared.” Presumably, it may be ethical
if they are granted a formal declaration
and a vote. Strange ethics!
Perhaps, after all, everything depends
on how real the dangers in South-East
Asia are. Attacking the Government for
introducing conscription, the Melbourne
Catholic “Advocate” declares: “Conscrip-
tion is in itself an evil thing justified
only in an emergency ...” Apart from
the question of what kind of moral talk
allows evil things to be justified, one
notes that this present crisis is not the
"Advocate’s” notion of an emergency.
But the Government thinks differently,
and governments are often supplied
with the best and latest information. On
November 10, 1964, the Prime Minister
said: “We cannot expect by voluntary
means to achieve a build-up in the
Army’s strength of the order we require
and to the timing which is necessary.
The Government has therefore decided
that there is no alternative to the intro-
duction of selective compulsory service
. . . Our decision has been taken only
because of the paramount needs of de-
fence and . . . preservation of our
security.” The decision, said the Prime
Minister, was based or the advice of
those best able to determine our military
needs and strategic vulnerability.
In opening the Senate campaign in
1964, the Prime Minister told the nation
that conscription was not being imposed
as a result of "just a politician’s judg-
ment. We did this on the close and
detailed advice of our military advisers
and the Military Board and the Chief of
the General Staff . . . We have acted on
their view which commended itself to us
as unanswerably correct. If you were to
have the Army, in the time you want,
then with the pressing economic circum--
stances particularly, voluntary recruit-
ing would not produce the result.”
Again in 1964, Parliament was told
that “to enable the Regular Army to
achieve the required degree of opera-
tional readiness, selective servicemen
must serve in regular units on a full-time
basis. If the scheme is to be effective,
those called up must, therefore, be under
an obligation to serve overseas as neces-
sary and must be available to go with
the regular unit with which they are
serving.”
And so, the moral question rests on a
large number of practical judgments.
If you are not convinced we should be
in Vietnam at all, and/or you do not
feel we are faced with an emergency in
South-East Asia, you will find the in-
fringement of personal liberty involved in
conscription intolerable and you may
call it immoral.
If you believe that the defence of
Indo-China is important both for the
welfare of South-East Asians and our
own security, you may feel that the
Government and the Army are the best
judges of how we supply military aid.
Both claim that we cannot meet our
commitments without conscription. They
should be in a position to know. Their
judgment is backed by the experience
of most Western nations, the vast
majority of whom depend on conscripted
national servicemen to complete their
regular armies.
Conscription is a serious withdrawal
of personal liberty but, in a society with
a democratic consensus on most basic
political issues, which most of its people
want to defend, and which offers full
opportunity for conscientious objection
to armed service, it is not basically evil
or immoral. The demands of both self-
interest and justice may make it neces-
sary.
Of course, we could always decide to
constrict our military contribution by
refusing to allow our units to serve be-
yond our shores. But, then, why bother
with an army at all? Better to stick to
our arbitrary morals and fight to the last
American!
The Doubtful War
By MAX CHARLESWORTH
To suggest, in these present days of
grace, that moral criteria apply to
conscription and to the business of
war in general is to risk being charged
with simple-mindedness, or to use Dr
Knopfelmacher’s pregnant phrase
with political virginity. As the Mel-
bourne “Age” put it recently, opposition
to conscription is “old-fashioned”. In
other words, given the brute facts of
international politics, conscription,
whether we approve of it or not, is in-
evitable, and it is so much tender-mind-
ed sentimentality to raise quibbles
about its morality.
Even those who have objected to the
present form of conscription in Aus-
tralia, have done so mainly on political
grounds, namely, because they think
either that Australia ought not to be
involved in the Vietnam war at all, or
that involvement, while justified, does not
call for the drastic measure of conscrip-
tion.
The only ones who have objected to
conscription on principle are the pacifists.
Between them and the “realists” there is
a vacuum of thought apropos this whole
issue.
Thinking about conscription has, of
course, to begin with thinking about the
morality of warfare in general, and the
traditional view was that warfare was
just only if waged in self-defence, only
if it were likely to bring about more
good than harm, only if immoral means
were not used, only if a distinction be-
tween combatants and non-combatants
were preserved. No doubt, in a sense,
these conditions have now been outmod-
ed, for in modern circumstances it is no
longer possible to define self-defence in
any clear-cut way, or to calculate the
balance of good and bad effects, or to
preserve the distinction between com-
batants and innocent non-combatants.
However, what remains valid in the tra-
ditional view is that war is justifiable only
if it is seen as a last resort, a necessary
evil, an abnormality. Where war or the
possibility of war is taken to be the
normal state of affairs, or where peace
comes to be defined as “cold war”, there
is obviously an unnatural and immoral
state of affairs.
There are those, as we know, who see
Communism as a permanent threat, a
permanent enemy and aggressor, and
who are thus prepared to accept a per-
manent state of cold war as necessary
and normal. A good many Catholics,
obsessive anti-Communists, take this atti-
tude. But if opposition to Communism
leads us to adopt the same attitudes and
means as the Communist powers class-
struggle and international conflict being
for them the normal state of affairs
then we have already lost the values we
were supposed to be fighting for.
As for those Catholics who are willing
to envisage a continuing cold holy war
against Communism, I cannot for the life
of me see how they can square this atti-
tude with Pope John’s Pacem in Terris
or with Pope Paul’s recent plea for peace
at the UN.
The consequences of all this for the
issue of conscription are obvious, for to
have quasi-permanent conscription is to
accept the permanent possibility of war,
to view the possibility of war as some-
thing normal, to see it as a constant and
inevitable factor in the relations between
men. And if, on the contrary, the
Christian and human view of war is
that it is a last resort and necessary evil,
then conscription also must be seen in
the same way an emergency measure,
an abnormal suspension of the usual
relationships between the individual and
the State, to be invoked only when there
is a clear and present danger to the
State and only where the justice of the
cause is obvious. It is clear that neither
of these conditions apply at the present
time apropos Australia’s commitment in
the Vietnam war, for it cannot realistic-
ally be pretended, even by the most con-
vinced exponent of the “dominoes”
theory, that the Vietnam situation con-
stitutes a clear and present danger to
Australia, nor (given the 58 per cent of
Australians against conscription) that the
justice of our cause is obvious.
There is another consideration. The
institution of conscription involves a
drastic over-riding of individual liberty
(even to the extent of forcing the indivi-
dual to risk giving his life for a cause
that he may in conscience abhor), and
in a democratic society we ought to
expect that conscription will not facilely
be taken for granted or be viewed, as
“The Age” implies a la mode. Rather,
we ought to expect that it will be seen,
once again, as a necessary evil requiring
the most stringent justification. As the
“Catholic Worker” recently put it: “Con-
scription does not involve moral issues
for a totalitarian state; for a demo-
cracy it does”. And the converse is also
true, for if the issue of conscription does
not raise moral issues for any society,
then there is something wrong with the
quality of democracy of that society.
I do not entertain any real hope that
these considerations will have any weight
for the tough-minded political realist
who sees the cold war and conscription
as necessary and inevitable features of
international life. But, as I implied be-
fore, if we really cannot defend Chris-
tianity save by un-Christian means, and
if we really cannot defend democracy
save by totalitarian means, then we ought
in all honesty give up being Christians
and democrats.


A
He has an electronic calculator
with a visible memory.
See the TV screen?
That’s where all his entries and
answers appear. They’re on a
restful, blue-green field. Four reg-
isters can be seen.
A fifth, unseen register can be
Used for storing constant factors.
In fact, figures in all registers
are in memory. He can recall any
of them back to the working reg-
ister for further calculation. This
saves him an amazing amount of
time. And also eliminates any
chance of making an incorrect
re-entry.
He can work complex prob-
lems and never take his fingers
Off the keyboard, except to write
the final answer.
This is the incomparably fast,
new 130 Electronic Calculator by
Friden.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
wm
The 130 Electronic Calculator by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
254 ALBERT STREET/EAST MELBOURNE. 411133
Branches:
SYDNEY 92 5807 ADELAIDE 23 5998
CANBERRA 4 6162 PERTH 23 3224
BRISBANE 51 1571 HOBART 34 2673 435 A
How Many
Men?
By T. B. MILLAR
T7ew Australians can be pleased at our
A being involved in the war in Vietnam,
but governments, like people, often take
decisions which they feel are the nearest
right alternative, and the decision to be
involved was taken in mid-1962, when
instructors were sent to help train the
South Vietnamese army. Later, their
number was increased, and some trans-
port aircraft were sent. Seventeen
months ago, legislation was adopted
which introduced the present form of
selective national service, with young
men being required to serve overseas if
the Government of the time, whatever
its political color, decided this was in
the interest of Australia’s security.
Almost twelve months ago. the
Government decided to send an infantry
combat unit to South Vietnam, and a
regular battalion of the Australian Army
has since been serving there with dis-
tinction. At the time, there were no
national servicemen in the Army, or
they would presumably" have gone with
the regulars.
The size of the Australian contribu-
tion must be determined by the Aus-
tralian Government on the basis of
operational need, political requirements,
and our capacity to provide. In de-
ciding to send a task force (i.e., about
a brigade group), we are in fact pro-
viding the smallest formation capable
of operational flexibility, of a reasonable
degree of self-containment in logistic
terms, and of justifying speaking with
an independent voice. The commander
of the Australian force, Major-General
Mackay, will be able to present an Aus-
tralian viewpoint in a way that earlier
commanders could not.
So long as Australian forces overseas
were composed of regulars, their num-
bers were restricted by the rate of volun-
tary enlistment, which cannot be high
in a society as wealthy and as fully-
employed as ours. National service has
changed this. It has given the Govern-
ment the opportunity to determine the
size of our forces in proportion to its
estimate of the danger to our security
and our commitments to our allies,
rather -than in inverse proportion to the
fullness of our pockets and the attractive-
ness of our beaches.
It may be wondered why a regular
army of 24,000 cannot provide an opera-
tional field force of 6000 (in Vietnam
and Malaysia). The Army recently made
available figures on the occupation of its
various regular components. At any one


m
mm
n:
meetmeatMenzies
Melbourne's most gracious hotel
A Member of The Federal Group —6O 1581
Reservations through Menzies, Savoy Plaza,
Federal (Melbourne); Hampton Court, Menzies
(Sydney); Wrest Point (Hobart); Lennons (Bris-
bane). lennons(Toowoomba), any airline or travel
agent.
6939
time there are approximately: 3500 on
the staff of army schools and other
training establishments; 3000 attending
courses of instruction of various kinds;
5700 in headquarters, administrative
units, ordnance depots, workshops and
similar service establishments; 1000 in
the training and administrative cadres of
CMF units; 200 attached to other ser-
vices and Government departments. In
addition, there are several hundred in
Papua-New Guinea.
To have 6000 overseas requires not
merely 6000 at home to replace them,
but others for normal reinforcements.
Nor is it desirable that a soldier should
spend, over any prolonged period, half
of his time in an operational area, i.e.,
we need much more than an equal re-
placement available at home. There also
must be a proportion of combat forces
kept in Australia to meet other oper-
ational contingencies. To complicate
this arithmetic further, some 20 per cent
of the field force is ineligible to be sent
overseas due to being over- or under-age
(currently 44 per cent of ARA recruits
are under 19), medically sub-standard
for operations, or because the length of
residual service (i.e., time to serve before
retirement) is too short to warrant it.
Few Australians appear to be aware
of the remarkable change in our defence
capacity and potential caused by the
introduction of the present national
service scheme, or of the smoothness
with which the national servicemen have
been integrated into the regular force.
There are not two full-time armies but
one, for the first time in our history.
National servicemen and regulars serve
together down to section level, facing
joint problems with a joint esprit de
corps. Some national service officers
command regular NCOs and troops in
almost all units. There has been a growth
of professionalism, especially in counter-
insurgency warfare, which also cuts
across the division. The acid test, com-
bat, has yet to come, but, according to
experienced regular officers, the portents
are most favorable.
To give national servicemen the right
to opt in or out of overseas service
would destroy the system and prevent
forward planning by the Army or the
Government. Similarly, to invite civilian
volunteers for special operations, such as
was done in Korea, would be to make
all planning uncertain, and, of course,
there is now no large reserve of war-
trained servicemen as we had in 1950.
National servicemen interviewed on
television have shown that, for the most
part, they want to get on with the job
and get it done. Do not the majority
of Australians applaud such a desire and
support the Army in its attempt to
carry out the tasks assigned to it by the
elected representatives of the people?
For Volunteers Only?
By JAMES McAULEY
To write in support of the conscrip-
tion of others is an unpleasing task.
One can easily be made to look like
a dispenser of white feathers, or a
patrioteer thriving on vicarious sacrifice.
But the problem is there, and needs to
be discussed. And it seems no more
undignified for someone not liable for
service to say that conscription may be
justified, than for such a one to presume
to protest on behalf of the young.
I have never understood fully the Aus-
tralian debate on conscription as it has
been carried on in the past half-century.
If one is a total pacifist one opposes
conscription also. If one is not a total
pacifist, the principle involved in opposi-
tion to conscription is harder to find.
It might be held abstractly that it is
morally wrong to call men up for com-
pulsory military service. Or that it is all
right to call them up for compulsory
military training, but wrong to compel
them to fight except as volunteers. Or
that it is all right to require men to fight
within their own country if it is attacked,
or within some peripheral area
arbitrarily defined in World War II as
below the equator but wrong to re-
quire men to fight outside their country,
or north of the equator, or whatever.
It is hard to see why the Government,
which has the responsibility of decision
about national defence, has not the right
to. require citizens to bear arms in pur-
suance of its decisions. Few Australians,
except pacifists, seem to regard conscrip-
tion as inherently wrong.
Mostly the argument arises from a
different principle: the belief that volun-
tariness is better than compulsion, and
that conscription can be justified only as
a last resort. In World War I the threat
to Australia was remote and indirect,
and the majority view was that overseas
service both could and should therefore


&
9m
mm
mm
I I,
•• :••••'■
" : v x : : ‘
JOT*»
P*
**
.
if
Have a Cinzano party
Cinzano Vermouth is a great party drink; fashionable, and
not expensive. Superb in cocktails, it’s utterly enjoyable
straight and very cold, “on-the-rocks,” or with a little
soda. Add a professional touch by serving
CINZANO SWEET (red) with a lemon peel
CINZANO EXTRA DRY with an olive
CINZANO BIANCO (sweet white) with a cherry
CINZANO AMARO (pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
House Founded 1757
Write to Cinzano. Birmingham Street. Alexandria, N.S.W., for
"Have a Cinzano Party" Folder,
be left to choice. In World War II the
threat to Australia was direct for a few
agonising weeks or months.
It would seem that many of the
opponents of conscription at present are
swinging back to a World War I position:
implying that Vietnam represents a threat
which is too remote and indirect to
warrant compulsory overseas service. The
trouble here is that the Government does
not agree. It regards it as vital that
Communist expansion be held in Viet-
nam, so as to avoid the more difficult
and costly involvement that would de-
velop for us if Mao’s programme of
revolutionary war is allowed to spread
further through South-East Asia. It is
not clear that we ought to prefer to have
wars on our own soil or as close to us
as possible.
Some people are anxious to say that
they do not agree with the Government’s
estimate of the dangers. Their remedy
should be to get rid of the Government.
But in the end any government must be
able to count on the loyalty of its citizens,
Connected with this is the odd sugges-
tion that men should not be required to
serve if they disagree with the defence
policy of their Government. No doubt
if a man is deeply convinced that his
Government is embarked on a wicked
course of action fraught with grave con-
sequences, he may feel morally compelled
to bear witness to his conviction and
refuse service—and if his conviction has
been soberly and conscientiously arrived
at one must respect him personally for
his refusal. But this is something an
individual must decide for himself
against the State, accepting at the same
time the consequences of civil dis-
obedience. He cannot expect the State
to hand out exemptions as a right. (The
State may, of course, do so as a matter
of concession, if it thinks this is practical
and prudent in the circumstances.)
The thing I’m not sure about is
whether in this situation the principle
that voluntariness is better than com-
pulsion is a sound one, truism as it may
at first appear.
Australia’s defence forces are essen-
tially civilian forces. Some men go into
the army as a career in the same way
as others go into other trades or pro-
fessions. In a full employment society
only a small proportion of people seem
to choose soldiering as a profession.
There is no guarantee that, even if the
Government had done more about its
defence system in the past decade, it
would have got a much higher propor-
tion of professional volunteers.
As things stand, the Government says
that the Regular Army is not large enough
to meet the Vietnam requirements and
it proposes to use national service
trainees not on a volunteer basis but on
a basis of external decision. Is this
morally less good, for example, than
asking for volunteers from the national
service ranks?
I’m not sure that it is. The duty of
service falls potentially on all competent
citizens. It is one of those duties like
paying taxes or serving on a jury which
a good citizen loyally accepts when it
is put upon him, though he may dislike
it, and avoid it if he can take advantage
of any legal exemptions.
It is inaccurate to say: let those go who
want to go, and let those stay behind
who don’t want to go. The national
serviceman who would volunteer might
not necessarily “want” to go: he would
have added up a complicated sum of
considerations, patriotic and personal,
and produced, reluctantly or not, a
positive answer. The national service-
man who would not volunteer would
have done an equally complicated sum,
not radically a very different one, though
for him it produced on balance a negative
answer. It is not clear to me that the
fairest result is produced by leaving it
to these private calculations, or that those
who participate would necessarily regard
this as the best procedure.
I know that men in the age group
sometimes express the view, not that they
object to conscription or to overseas
service, but that they object to any kind
of selective service: if it is fair for one
to be called up, all should be called up.
But there are practical difficulties in the
way of this. If some principle of selection
has to be applied, there is a case for not
dropping the weight of an unwelcome
decision on every individual, taking
advantage, as it were, of those who would
then feel that they “had better” volunteer.


NCR 395 all-electronic data processing
system for every accounting operation
You'll be amazed with the results you can get with the new NCR "395 family”
of electronic systems. The 395 is an all-transistorised, electronic accounting
machine that performs all arithmetic functions (+, —, X, -f-), plus logical
decisions.
With the NCR 395 you can have all the speed, accuracy and management
control of fully electronic data processing.
The solid-state (fully transistorised) NCR 395 combines proven NCR techniques
with computer speeds. This means an incredible ability to perform every
accounting task and at the same time produce reports once considered possible
only with a more expensive electronic computer system.
The new NCR 395 has magnetic disc memory and functions at electronic
speeds. Installation is simple; just plug the 395 in. Customer programming
expense is eliminated. It’s easier to operate than conventional bookkeeping
machines.
Unlike some "electronic” accounting machines, the 395’s memory is not part
electronic, part mechanical. It’s a fully electronic, solid-state machine. For
full details call your local NCR office, or write NCR, Box 2626, G.P.0., Sydney.
fi
mmm
V-
.v.V'o. : ;
■h
.
.
HELPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTT. LTD.


Pick, & pouchy
AMPHORA
mm
gentle
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
s., . J
>■£
s
:■ ' V
“ Vs
‘ W..V
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
gentle
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
SAI7S/1
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you.Ampte.ta
is an imported tobacco!
A PRODUCT OF DOOWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HOLUHD
The Gossip Writers
Sources close to the King report...
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
T have a suggestion for urgent consid-
A eration: Let’s have a couple of weeks’
embargo on news and comment on the
ALP so that we can all catch up on what
is happening.
The flood of news stories and the
volumes of editorial advice have been
too much. I do not believe our honest
capitalist Press really cares that much
for the old ALP. It’s plan must surely be
to kill the party finally by the twin de-
vices of over-exposure and a smother of
friendly admonition.
It all began, didn’t it, when less than
two months back the ALP Federal
Executive directed Federal Caucus to
vote against further extensions on State
Aid, when the Executive stacked the
party Foreign Affairs and Defence Com-
mittees with Left-wingers and dropped
prominent parliamentarians from these
and other key committees?
For Gough Whitlam it seemed the
Hour of Destiny had come, the moment
to which Australian history had been
leading ever since another Arthur set a
disappointed foot in the sandy swamps
of Botany Bay. Gough attacked; the
ALP took over the front pages; editorials
throughout the nation thundered advice;
half the parliamentarians went to water;
and Gough Whitlam was promptly
hauled up before his betters.
Alan Reid in the Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” was lengths in front of the field in
breaking many of the stories, his best
coup in the early stages being that Cham-
berlain and his squad had decided to
press for Whitlam’s expulsion. But soon
the whole issue became clouded by con-
flicting sources, leaks, “officials of the
Party”, “informed observers”, “know-
ledgeable quarters” and other devices
used in the dissemination of gossip. Re-
strained correspondents began to let their
heads go. Fact, fiction and falsehood
mingled in a confused farrago across the
front pages of most of Australia’s dailies.
The problem, whilst all this was going
on, was whom to follow. The Press was
full of inside-dopesters, newsbreakers,
men with the good oil; while intelligent
commentators like Alan Reid and lan
Fitchett were at variance in their major
interpretations of the score. Whitlam’s
letter to the South Australian ALP
Executive was too much for Reid who
declared on March 11: “The Deputy
Opposition Leader (Mr Whitlam) today
surrendered in his fight with the ALP
Federal Executive.”
The same interpretation formed the
substance of one of the sharpest political
cartoons in years (Tanner in The
Bulletin, March 19). But it did not
go unchallenged. lan Fitchett in the
“SMH”, March 16, entered the lists
against the “gutless wonder” school:
“If Mr Whitlam wins at the coming
Federal Conference, the Left-wing junta
on the Federal Executive will have suf-
fered such a reverse that it surely would
not be necessary for any Labor man to
have to go outside the framework of the
Party again.”
The Melbourne “Age” which was pro-
viding an unusually full cover of events
was inclined to go with Fitchett.
Then followed the great rash of specu-
lations in all papers as to who was siding
with whom for what. All carried con-
flicting reports from well-informed circles.
Whitlam had lost Daly’s support; Fraser
was finished with Whitlam; Whitlam was


w^
; •
m
\l
if the lines in your
office are all tied up
GO OUTSIDE
AND CALL STG
ABOUT PABX
When this happens, two things are
obvious. Your business is growing like
wildfire. And yourtelephone system is not
keeping pace. One call to STC can correct
the latter. Even if you have to make itfroma
phone booth. Just ask any STC Sales
Representative about the
STC Australian Pentaconta Crossbar
Private Automatic Branch Exchange.
Boiled down, PABX means streamlined
telecommunications efficiency. Internally
and internationally. Any STC Sales
Representative will gladly explain the
advantages of PABX and how they
benefit your company.
For further information contact Standard
Telephones and Cables Pty. Limited, 252
Botany Road, Alexandria, Sydney.
Phone: 69 0444. Melbourne: 44 5161.
Canberra: 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD. : Fred Hoe & Sons Pty. Lto*
Brisbane,4 1771
S. A. : Unbehaun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide
51 3731
W.A. : M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd. Perth 21 6461
TAS. : W. &G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston
2 2231. Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
ITT
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
UIOSA


i
\
i mm
ir
II
■
’
ftw/ fti/hr
■
■ o
; :
i
Wmiff I-
; ' :' v //i;:
■
f
tm w*a ,■*?•*
■:i;i
Wfmmm
**#l
- .
mmm
Tib
»a
Kr"
Lv
u.M
■I
>2
■
i
1? I
SIS 1 i ■
yn
I:?
o i , %t&
m
m
.
Trains
take the tension
out of travel
Even before the journey starts the tensions have gone, dissolved in the
salve of familiars long since associated with rail travel the certainty of
relaxation and comfort, of safety, of a passing parade of scenic interest,
of reaching a destination at a known time. And always, of course, the
freedom from financial strain. Mile for mile, train travel remains the most
economical of them all.
In place of travel tensions there are the travel pleasures the cosiness
of comfy seats from which to view the scenery . . . the ability to catch up
with your reading, sleep . . . the simple pleasure of being able to stretch
your legs while travelling . . . the meals and refreshments served in buffet
diners, or at your seat. And, on nearly all Australia’s mainline trains, the
superb air-conditioning.
So next time you travel, just don’t go to get there. Live a little as you
travel and enjoy yourself a lot. Next time go by train.
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by Authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia


after a deal with Cairns; Calwell had won
back Cairns; Queensland was anxious to
compromise with the Right-wing; Daly
had lost control of the NSW Caucus
vote; Fraser was pushing Beazley; Cham-
berlain was going to expel everybody
for the sake of principle. By now even
the staid Adelaide “Advertiser” was
printing comment and “sources close to
the King, etc.” stuff on its news pages.
In the welter of reports and specula-
tions, at least the sources of many of the
journalists became clear. “The Aus-
tralian” gave tons of space to Whitlam
and his opinions and manoeuvres. “The
Sydney Morning Herald” indicated its
displeasure with the Chamberlain-Cairns-
Calwell faction and showed its concern
for Mr Whitlam’s indecisiveness without
suggesting an alternative leader. “The
Age” news stories showed solid contact
with the Luchetti-Benson wing of the
Party and its political correspondent gave
favorable interpretations of Whitlam’s
plan of campaign.
“The Age” was in a spot over State
Aid, however. Editorially “The Age”
thinks State Aid is a nasty business, but
it also thinks that the ALP needs to be
reformed by the Whitlams and Frasers,
the State Aid faction. “The Labor Party’s
internal wrangling has unfortunately
magnified the political significance of
State Aid out of all proportion to its
educational importance.”
“The Age” was right, if for the wrong
reason. The fight was initially focused
on State Aid but there was much more
in it than the Church School question;
and more than the question of whether
the Federal, non-Parliamentary machine
was to dominate Caucus. But how many
papers are prepared to face it?
According to the “SMH”, the issues
are: “Leadership, parliamentary author-
ity, State Aid.” (Editorial, March 23.)
According to “The Australian” the issues
are State Aid, the Party’s decision-making
machinery, and the negative attitude of
Caucus. (Editorial, March 30). “The
Age” in an editorial (March 28) declares:
“The recent crisis demonstrated some
fundamental weaknesses in the ALP’s
Federal structure.”
But scarcely anybody wants to raise
that un-Australian word “ideology”. The
differences, we are told, are over a few
specific policies and the power of the
machine over parliamentarians. The
most manifest ideological differences,
which are of fundamental importance for
an understanding of the crisis, are on
the whole ignored for two reasons:
1. Being non-ideological themselves,
most reporters and leader writers are un-
happy dealing with ideological issues.
2. To raise the issue of ideology
means describing the basic ideas, alli-
ances, and strategy of the extreme Labor
Left, and there is a gentle and not entirely
successful conspiracy to pretend: (a) that
this is not really an extreme Left, (b)
even though it is, this is not dangerous,
and (c) even if it is dangerous, that is
not serious.
The extreme Left has been subtle or
fortunate enough to control not only
the terms and spirit of the debate in
ALP chambers, but also the terms and
spirit of the debate in most of the capit-
alist Press. So we find writers Max
Newton and Gregory Clark in “Nation”,
Douglas Brass in “The Australian”, and
many others, falling all over themselves
to explain that Cairns and Chamberlain,
etc., are really like the rest of us deep
down, and even if they were pro-Com-
munist, who should care since they are
men of principle?
But the ideological differences between
men like Kim Beazley, Sam Benson,
Fred Daly and Les Reynolds on the one
hand and those of Tom Uren, Clyde
Cameron, Sam Cohen, and Leslie Haylen
on the other cannot be smoothed away
by a compromise on State Aid, some
changes in the Federal machine and a
pat on the back.
They are differences too great to be
accommodated in any Australian politi-
cal party, because the situation in Asia
will exacerbate rather than ameliorate
them. The fact that a number of ambi-
tious politicians stand in the middle of
this dispute trying to wish it away and
pretending it is not there does not alter
the situation. Unless the ALP can heal
this ideological split in attitudes to de-
fence, the Asian revolution, and Com-
munist fronts at home it will remain in
a state of civil war for another genera-
tion. This is the real lesson of the whole
crisis.
The Easter Rebellion
For the fiftieth anniversary of Dublin*s Easter
rebellion we reprint “The Bulletin’s” editorial comment
of May 18, 1916. We see no reason to change our views
on the rebellion and the issues it raised.
ITnder martial law death is the
penalty for treason, and the man
who takes up arms against the
Government “fights with the rope
round his neck”. What is tolerably
clear, however, is that the present
crop of executions in Ireland, while
they may be just, are impolitic. They
go a long way to emphasise the blind-
ness of English Governments to the
real nature of Ireland’s quarrel. No-
thing appears to have been learnt
from the history of the past; and if
it were the deliberate intention of
English authority who have an Irish
trouble on its hands for ever, it could
hardly go to work to
achieve that object
more heartily than it
has been doing during
the last few days. A
show of stern force
may be valuable in
India; it does more harm than
good in Ireland. For 700 years it has
been tried off and on, and has on
every occasion proved a fiasco.
What England fails utterly to under-
stand is that rebellion against her
authority may be the outward show-
ing of the highest patriotism, and
that, however misguided, the men
who have been executed may have
been animated only by motives which
to them seemed highest and holiest.
Many a martyr has died in a cause
that was foolish and wrong; yet the
making of martyrs is always bad
business for the makers. The great
bulk of the people of Ireland have at
all times been unwilling partners in
the union with England, and differ
from Englishmen in race, creed, out-
look, traditions and ideals.
An armed outbreak in Ireland is
thus from the point of view of those
engaged in it a war and not a rebel-
lion at all; and while England can-
not, of course, admit that, it is not
wise to press the matter of reprisals
to the extent of making them a
ground for future bitterness. Had
Ireland been granted self-government,
such as even the in-
dividual States of Aus-
tralia enjoy, the Sinn
Fein trouble could
never have occurred.
The great bulk of the
people of Ireland de-
manded home rule and the majority
of the people of Britain favored grant-
ing it. The proposal was blocked by a
small minority in Ireland, backed
by the privileged classes in England.
No shuffling or side-stepping can
alter the fact that the recent fighting
in Dublin was primarily caused by
Edward Carson and the House of
Lords, who blocked the constitutional
effort towards Irish nationalism, and
forced the enthusiastic extremists into
active hostility. When is the court-
martial on Carson and the peers going
to be held?
50 Years Ago


How to read a cork
and astound your friends
Tonight, when you coax the stopper
from a bottle of your favourite wine,
spare a few moments and consider
the cork.
It may seem an insignificant object,
dull and mundane, but it has an
interesting story to tell.
It started its life as a tiny part of the
craggy bark covering a majestic tree
in Portugal. Tonight, it will have com-
pleted its task, and have nothing
before it but an ignominious trip to
the dust bin.
What was this task? A vital one in the
maturing and ageing of your wine. It
created a seal that was not a seal...
a barrier that prevented the wine from
escaping, but at the same time
allowed just the right amount of air
to enter the bottle and mature the
wine correctly.
You could say that the relationship
between air and wine is much the
same as between salt and food. Too
much can spoil the final result
too little leaves the best flavour
unrealised.
You see, cork is porous. It is naturally
honeycombed with thousands of
minute air passages that allow the
wine to reach through to the air it
needs to “age” properly. Air (or
rather the oxygen in the air) gives the
wine its chance to reach adulthood
and develop the full character you
expect from your wine.
If you look closely you can see the
tiny holes. As a matter of fact, if the
wine you’re serving happens to be a
red this will be easier, because the
natural tannins of the red wine will
have stained the cork showing you
where the wine has been.
So how do you read a cork? If it's too
moist the wine might be “pricked” or
sour tasting. If there’s a web-like
substance inside the cork it has prob-
ably been attacked by the cork moth.
If the cork is too dry, the wine has
been improperly stored it has been
left standing upright and the wine has
not had a chance to reach through
the cork for its ration of air.
Actually, you don't have to worry
about the cork if the wine comes from
Penfolds. Every Penfolds cork is care-
fully selected and inspected many
times before it reaches your bottle
department or liquor store.
Tonight, give the cork its due consid-
eration. Judge it to see that it has
done its appointed job. Then dispose
of it kindly. (Some people even keep
a collection.)
The wines that need particular atten-
tion to corking and uncorking
are the classic table wines (such as
Penfolds famous Dalwood or Eden
Valley wines). Choose them carefully,
store them carefully, draw the cork
carefully. Your attention is rewarded
by the wine itself particularly if it is
Penfolds.
BE WINE WISE, CHOOSE
PENF®LDS
WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844
PW1094


IN SYDNEY
Tanner
"The jewels are OK, but they've pinched
$5OOO worth of electronic burglar alarm."
"Notice how mine burns crisper, more
evenly, to give a smoother, more satisfy-
ing smoke? That's because I use my
medical exemption certificate."
"The critics of our pay increases are making
a mockery of Parliamentary dignity."
"What's an acquired taste?"
"They're much thinner this year must be the drought."


■sr y A, l,
i'x^<Wwy*vAS‘;-;
•&&&£
■WWW^vwXviv
J M.rrC
& ,-^ / M J &&
m M
$ / ;
/;v"
“I don’t believe it..
detailed statements in 4 seconds!
Easy! With a 3M ‘Q System’. Combine a bond, pre-printed ‘O’ statement
with a ledger card. Place in a 3M Statement Machine . . . one dry, pre-
cisely printed and addressed statement ready to mail 4 seconds later!
Or an hour later . . . 250 statements. See the 3M ‘Q’ System in operation
now at the 3M Business Communications Centre.
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Brisbane 5-4131 . Adelaide 51-5971
Perth 28-4651 . Hobart 3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 . Auckland 295-109
COfTIPANY
3M2/1727/65


So who needs
another new airliner!
Big airlines do!
To feed their main routes. To
operate auxiliary services where ft
would be uneconomical to fly larger
aircraft. To rely on in emergencies.
Small airlines do!
To serve country routes with a
twin-engined, all-weather airplane
carrying 6-11 passengers in all the
comfort of a big, international airliner.
Big companies do!
To give their executives flexibility,
so they can go and see for themselves,
independent of airline routes and
timetables in their own, flying
conference room.
Charter companies do!
An aircraft that has all-weather
capability, that is so robustly built
and cunningly designed that
maintenance time is minimal and
flying time is maximum.
They all need the
©eechcraft
Queen Air
6-11 seats. 252 m.p.h. Range of 1 300
miles. Twin 340 or 380 h.p. fuel
injection engines. Retractable
undercarriage. Thickly upholstered
reclining seats. Deep carpeting.
Luxurious furnishing. Complete all-
weather navigational and radio
equipment.
HAWKER DE HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Sole Beechcraft Distributors for Australia and
New Guinea.
General Aviation Departments at:
Bankstown Aerodrome, N.S.W. Parafield
Aerodrome, S.A. Archerfield Aerodrome, Qld.
Jandakot Aerodrome. W.A. and
Civil Flying Services Pty. Ltd.. Moorabbin, Vic.
Territory Airlines Ltd., Goroka. N.G.
1896/65
ON THE MARGIN
A Hungry Generation Treads
You Down
HThe parents of teenagers it is hard
to avoid that over-worked word
are, in general, worried people. Typical
of them is Mrs J. , a woman of
my acquaintance who has two daughters
of 18 and 14 and a son of 16. She said
to me : “My husband and I are desperate.
We’ve done our best for the children,
but they are bringing us to the verge of
ruin. They never stop eating.”
The same story is heard over and over
again. I can confirm the facts from per-
sonal observation. The young people of
today openly and wantonly indulge their
appetites. They think nothing of follow-
ing a mega-breakfast with a multi-sand-
wich lunch and a dinner of two or three
helpings. Then around 9 p.m. they rumm-
age in the refrigerator for more. Small
wonder that parents are often distraught
and bewildered.
Yet when parents dare to remonstrate,
they are ignored or laughed at. Mr N.
, a Sydney c ather, said
to his adolescent sons: “You
ought to be ashamed of your-
selves. When I was young we
practised self-control. We
enjoyed our eating in a
wholesome way. But we
believed we should wait till after marr-
iage before we could get as much as we
wanted.”
The cynical reply was: “Give over,
Dad! When you were our age you ate
as much as we do. You oldies are all
the same. Just because you’ve got ulcers
now, you don't like to see us kids having
a bit of fun.”
One of the poignant experiences of
parenthood is watching the growth of
children’s appetites. At first they are
charming tots who actively resist food.
Mothers plead with them: “Eat up your
egg,” “Finish your vegies,” etc.- A few
years follow when boys and girls eat
voluntarily but within reason. Alarm is
felt when one of them is “not hungry’ 1
or “just picking at her
Then suddenly the whole thing blows
up. Orders for lunch sandwiches are
doubled. At dinner, pies and casseroles
vanish while aggressive consumers ask:
“Isn’t there any more?”
The shock of this eating explosion is
too much for some mothers. Mrs J.
said to me brokenly: “The girls are as
bad as the boys. They’re quite shameless.
I saw one girl from a good home,
too get through five sausages, then
back up for another helping of apple
charlotte.”
The unrestrained teenage interest in
food is not limited to lower-income
groups and less privileged families. Social
workers say some of the most abandoned
eating practices are found in well-to-do
areas. Barbecues for young people on
Sydney’s North Shore often degenerate
into orgies. Youths and girls frankly
admit to having five or six chops in an
evening; and some complain they are still
not satisfied.
The conversation of teenagers all too
often reveals their obsession with food.
The subject is discussed in detail with
astonishing frankness. Young people who
work in city offices will argue at length
over the merits of the hamburgers at
Suzy Wong’s or the fish and chips at the
Go-Go Inn. At an age when they could
be expected to enjoy telling
risque stories, they fritter
away their time in gossip
about different brands of soft
drinks and pies.
Fortunately there are some
people with practical plans
for dealing with the problem. One of
them is the Rev. Ted Potts, who runs a
youth canteen in East Sydney.
He says: “There is really nothing ab-
normal or unhealthy in the teenagers’
interest in food. What is needed is a
place where they can eat in cheerful
surroundings and meet others of their
age-group. -It is much better for them
than staying at home gorging, or holding
furtive barbecues. Here at our canteen
boys find that girls can be as interesting
as steak and kidney pie. Girls discover
there are other thrills as well as those
they obtain from chocolate eclairs.”
The fact remains, however, that most
adolescents do their heaviest eating at
home. The main burden is carried by
their unhappy parents. Mrs T ,
an anxious Newcastle mother, voiced the
thoughts of many when she said: “What
worries me is that I always know where
my teenage children are. They are in the
kitchen. They drink enormous quantities
of milk. If they only developed a healthy
interest in sex and stayed out at night,
things would be different. But with the
food bills we are getting, I don’t know
which way to turn.”
ROSS CAMPBELL


AROUND MELBOURNE
The Last of the Great Palaces
‘CVjr some years now this page has
been insufferable about old movie
theatres. It is about to be insuffer-
able again. As was my wont, I spent
early Tuesday morning wandering
around the Regent Theatre in Bourke
Street.
This is the largest movie theatre
in Australia, one of the last of the
great palaces. It seats 3253 and if
you added the Plaza immediately be-
low, why, Hoyts could seat Mr Holt’s
entire contingent to Vietnam. And
it’s beautiful. All around the balcony
in pressed metal there are nice young
maidens stripped to the waist. Up
under the dome there are Etruscan
friezes and the Elgin marbles at the
very least. There are whopping great
chandeliers, there are marvellous
lighting effects that constantly change
color, Corinthian columns, Doric
columns and literally acres of scal-
loped burgundy colored curtains.
It was at the Regent that I met
Graham Ashmore of the Theatre
Organ Society of Australia. One of
the major aims of TOSA and its 500
members is the preservation of
Mighty Wurlitzer organs. Mr Ash-
more explained with sadness that only
two Mighty Wurlitzers were left in
daily action in Australia—one in
Adelaide and one here at the Regent
in Melbourne. TOSA feels so strongly
about this it bought the Mighty Wur-
litzer out of the Capitol Theatre and
is in the process now of installing it
in the Dendy Theatre, Brighton.
I see you are raising an eyebrow.
Well, a Mighty Wurlitzer is not a
horrid electric organ. The Mighty is
a complete pipe organ, coupled, what's
more, to every darned instrument you
can name. It’s more of an extrovert
of an organ than you would find in
St Patrick’s, the voicing is more stri-
dent, the tremulants beat more pas-
sionately but, by heavens, it can put
on a show. The organ at the Regent
has 1500 pipes, which range from
great 32-foot affairs down to pipes the
size of a lead pencil. Then, powered
by levers, pulleys, electric impulses,
pneumatic suction and black magic
are all the instruments, Chinese gong,
chrysoglot, castanets, sandpaper
block, cathedral chimes, marimba,
sleigh bells, bird whistles, xylophone,
glockenspiel, full range of drums,
piano and even a train whistle.
I turned back to the special edition
of the “Herald” for the opening of
the Regent on March 15, 1929. “The
greatest theatrical event in the world
for 1929” it was. What’s more, the
Regent was “poetry in stone” and
the “audience sat spellbound” but there
was much mention of the £30,000
Mighty Wurlitzer, which was only
the fourth of its type in the world.
It had 284 stops, 560 separate move-
ments and 2,500,000 separate electri-
cal contacts. Apart from the full
range of instruments, including a
grand piano, there was a special instru-
ment for creating comedy effects.
In the old days, the organist used
to wear a white tuxedo. The organ
console would rise up magically out
of the bowels of the theatre and all
would be in a pool of light. The
console would be on the left-hand
side of the stage and the grand piano
would be on the right. But, of
course, like everything else, the grand
piano was connected pneumatically to
the organ console, and every so often
there would be this black magic of it
playing by itself.
"Well, the Wurlitzer's installed.
Now, where're you going to put
the audience...?"
With Graham Ashmore I spoke to
Pat .Quinlan of Hoyts, who has been
there since the Regent began. He
told us: “Of course a Wurlitzer is
absolutely essential. If you haven’t
got an organ you haven’t got a
picture theatre.”
However, he explained that things
were not quite as grand as they used
to be. The Regent burned down in
1945, and the £27,000 new organ,
mostly brought over from Perth, was
slightly less magnificent. No longer
did the console rise out of the bowels;
it was permanent in a box, and even
more sad, the piano was now an up-
right and hidden from the audience.
Yet it was still pretty good. The wind
came from two 15 horsepower motors
and there were so many pipes, so
many Xylophones, drums, chrysoglots,
horses’ hooves, etc., they filled three
rooms, the size of large living rooms.
Graham Ashmore said the organ
was silent for 3i years until they
introduced the Regent to" Tony Fene-
lon, who was unquestionably the
greatest theatre organist in Australia.
Once they heard Tony they were so
amazed they put him on for the night
programmes. Mr Ashmore pointed
out that Tony was a bachelor of
science in electronics and worked on
heart equipment at the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital. He just adored
playing the organ and for the big
occasions he wore a gold lame jacket.
Just then Tony arrived for his early
morning practice. We sank deep into
the best seats in Row A. Tony played
Mozart, Haydn, Sound of Music,
Nola, Warsaw Concerto, practically
everything. We had piano, tambo-
rines, glockenspiel, horses’ hooves,
sandpaper, triangle, bass drum, the
32-foot pipes, xylophone, kettle drum,
and he even gave us the special
thunder effect which made me reach
for my overcoat. At times the splen-
did sound was so terrific it would
have lifted the tops off the ice cream
cartons.
Mr Ashmore said: “We are making
progress in bringing back the Mighty
Wurlitzer, but incredibly I cannot get
the radio stations to play organ
music.”
I said: “Is there an electric guitar
on the Mighty Wurlitzer?”
“No, I don’t think so,” he replied.
“That might be your answer.”
BATMAN


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
Freedom to Have
No Choice
Every year the da> before my birth-
day and about three days before
Christmas (just to be on the safe
side) my present from Narromine
arrives. The parcel comes addressed in
the same old square, familiar hand-
writing and lately I have noticed the
sender has begun to draw cartoons on
the back a funny skeleton who is
always melting in the hot western sun,
who bores everyone by his continual
croaking for water, or, on cold days,
when feeling more himself, who com-
ments crisply on the defects of life in
the grey cities.
But this fellow Tom, as we call him,
has a noble spirit. Not once in all this
time has he complained of buying pre-
sents, or groceries, or sewing cotton or
wrapping paper or chocolates that didn’t
turn white in the heat or clothes that
are not brown-colored. Nor has he
wished, by even subtle suggestion, that
he would like to break the local rule
and travel the 24 miles to the metropolis
of Dubbo where selection is good, prices
cheaper and shops line the two main
streets and trickle down the sidestreets.
But Tom’s creator has my utmost ad-
miration because out of all the presents
I receive her choice is invariably the
most imaginative and the most pleasing.
She is one of those rare present-givers
to whom you can turn and say with all
honesty: “Not only is that just what I
wanted, but you realised it before I did.”
And I cannot but help add sometimes:
“I couldn’t have afforded it anyway.” I
sympathise with my friend's problem of
buying presents in a small town in west-
ern New South Wales because I once
lived in Narromine myself. Before I left
Sydney I stocked up for family birthdays
because, knowing very little of the bush,
the name, Narromine conjured up a
place the other end of a dusty red track,
a stringy spotted bitser who limped and
a white cottage to which a red Post
Office sign had been added. Instead, I
found Narromine, too, had shops which
lined two main streets. There were two
“department” or general stores one
chain-owned and selling many items that
I later saw in Sydney department stores
for little less. The other, across the rail-
way line, was family owned, Narromine
owned, and had more of a homey
general-store atmosphere about it. It
sold everything from fly-veils and water
bags (not the hot sort) to fashion goods
and underwear. It even had a super-
market.
Many Narromine people shopped at
the second store, they said, tc keep the
money in the town. They were like that.
If a competition were won, it was only
good if it went to someone local to keep
the money where it was. But there was
one old man who made sure his weekly
accounts with both stores keep about
even. “If one store closed down, I
wouldn't want the other lot laughing at
me,” he’d say.
On my day of arrival in Narromine I
realised I could buy any necessity as
long as I did not draw up specifications
as to color, size, shape, design or cut.
Soon afterwards jin high summer when I
moved into a small box of a room with
rosy pink walls I decided to buy a red
(or pink) sponge cloth which I could
hang to dry on the window-sill so that
the impact of “hotness” in the room
would hit anyone who entered. But the
stores could only offer a lemon-yellow
one, patterned with bottle green. I bought
it, after several weeks managed to break
the cellophane and after about as long
a time came around to using it. But I
never hung it on the window-sill.
However, after a year I came to accept
this way of shopping and even v began to
wonder if suburban housewives couldn’t
learn to cherish it too. The joy of asking
for soap flakes and being given just that
• with no mention of brand; the satis-
faction of asking for a pair of brown
gloves (you soon become accustomed
to the color) and being given the only
ones in the shop.
Country people argue (and they may
have a point) that if the customer had
500 pairs to choose from, she may not be
as happy with her choice. The bargain-
hunter may look disappointed. But one
day at the chain store I picked up for
fifty cents a fashionable hat which I
wear to weddings and a beach hat for
the same price. And there was not even
a SALE notice displayed. But perhaps
since I have gone commerce in Narro-
rnine has changed. Last Christmas my
friend sent me a present, which I would
have thought would have made Tom
raise a disapproving eyebrow or perhaps
out of the corner of his mouth whisper:
“Bought in Dubbo”. Unless the merchan-
dise displayed in Narromine has now
drastically changed and you can now
buy orange-colored articles there.
MARGERY DAVIS


k 'V O
-
liliiki:, < - : ; * siillliiilliiiiißillliilißliiiliillill^llliilliiilli^iip^^##
mm
mm
mm
>
i
MM
m
wmmm
-
\ •«»
r*w.
/
X- .
* " w •• .*
Today Australia is experiencing one of its
most dramatic progressions in advanced
communications, not only within the conti-
nent, but internationally as well.
Since 1960, Collins Radio Co. (A/asia) Pty.
Ltd. has played a major role in this develop-
ment: with the supply and installation of
complex electronic equipment and systems ot
Australia’s Defence Departments, other
Government Departments, and Commercial
Airlines.
With the recently-completed Space Tracking
Station by Collins in the Orroral Valley,
Australian installation technicians now .join
Collins in the vanguard of modern com-
munications with the most advanced elec-
tronic equipment in the world.
m
*\
■Y'.,
1
u*
* * r s
i * *
' Si
mm
■m *
| <st
: »
*. - *
v ;«v * ■
♦ "ju»a
? ; | * •' «<4fc«. • ;•;>>;■ <
' -*-2£-altl ; fas-«M
> lmuih 11 iiinrrtf r
Yp|| W
f t Y-|sr; T ;:;|
ifei
■ V;
Australian communication technicians, trained in the United States, assist in the check-out
of the central control of the Orroral Valley Space Tracking Station’s complex electronic
functions.
COMMUNICATI ON/COMPUTATION/CONTROL.
COLLIXS
COLLINS RADIO CO. (A/asia) PTY. LTD.
327 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 61 2626,


LONDON LETTER
“Smile, Ted Baby”
From ALEXANDER FRATER
Harold Wilson’s massive victory
aside, the 1966 general election
campaign will be remembered
chiefly for its windiness and unremitting
boredom. The nation, yearning for a
giant with fire in his belly and some
radical proposals for leading .t and the
unfortunate pound towards a bright, new
destiny, was faced with choosing between
two affable, unremarkable men pro-
pounding a set of pretty unremarkable
policies. This election was a clash of
personalities, as opposed to parties, and
one of the more significant aspects of
the tussle was the element of showman-
ship they introduced at their public
meetings.
Harold Wilson, serene as a herring
smack under full sail, dropped his
homely, shambling image and went all
out for stature. Settling a cloak of omni-
potence across his dumpy shoulders, he
began to selectively pirate some of the
more, memorable characteristics of his
predecessors: his voice, at emotive mo-
ments, became positively Churchillian,
his repartee with hecklers bore a striking
similarity to that of Lloyd George, the
length and gravity of his pauses recalled
Harold Macmillan, and the sense of
unswerving dedication to us, the poor,
bloody people, was pure Clem Attlee.
The Press obliged him too: “The
Observer” called him “a pipe-smoking
Baldwinesque figure” and “The
Guardian” hailed him as a folk hero.
Occasionally, however, through the
posturing, one discerned the real Wilson
mainly when he talked about Edward
Heath. Heath brought out the best in
Wilson: the derision, the sardonic wit,
the sense of incredulity that the Conser-
vatives had actually elected this man to
lead them. When talking about Ted he
would smile, lean back on his heels and
cleverly convey the impression that he
had forgotten the fellow’s name. On the
whole, he played Heath like a lute: the
famous reference to the spaniel rolling
_on its back, for example, had precisely
its intended effect: Heath publicly and
savagely, lost his temper.
Edward Heath, in the early stages of
the campaign anyway, seemed unsure
of how to present himself. A cheery
soul, he had obviously been told by the
PR people at the Conservative Party
central office to play it sombre, so he
went to the hustings in a state of apparent
rage. That didn’t work, so we can assume
the PR chaps leapt to the phone and
barked, “Smile, Ted baby: we need some
laughing asides.” The result was an un-
easy marriage of grin and scowl which
confused the electorate until they got
used to it even more. Fleet Street
was not kind to him. Remarked the
“Daily Mirror”: “Nobody can remember
any sentence he has ever spoken.” Brutal
words, because he had obviously worked
hard on his speeches and he delivered
them with all the passion of a man who
knew full well that his political survival
depended on their effect. “The Observer”,
however, remained unimpressed and
complained “there is no color in his
voice. Delivery is stiff, with little varia-
tion of pace, perhaps because someone
has told him tc speak more slowly”. It
also noted that he seemed hamstrung by
a shortage of small talk, which was fair
comment: his exchanges with hecklers
were forced and uneasy. He seemed, in
short, to have trouble striking a rapport
with his audiences. Said the “Mirror”:
“Those earnest features unscarred by the
battle of life, that plummy voice, a mix-
ture of the accents of Oxford and East
Kent, do not provide instant telegenic
charm.”
Even the Continental papers, though
approving his fervent pro-European
attitudes, were a bit dubious about
Heath the leader if only because they
had grown acclimatised to blue-blooded
Tories at the helm. “Mr Heath,” confided
the German “Suddeutsche Zeitung” with
certain puzzlement, “is the strangest Con-
servative leader since Disraeli, a name
without a history, a man without family
or social connections.”
In the latter half of the campaign the
massive pro-Labor tide, as evidenced by
the opinion polls, showed some signs of
turning. One of the causes may well have
been Heath’s decision to ignore his ad-
visers and concentrate for the first time
on simply being himself bluff, cheer-
ful, determined, and readily identifiable
with the man in the street. But in the
end it made no difference.
WITH THE ELECTION DEAD and
buried, London is now bracing itself for
an ordeal of another kind. In June, the
Playboy Club comes to town. They have
built themselves a sleek, ten-storey pad
(designed by Walter Gropius) at 45
Park Lane, between the Dorchester and
Hilton hotels, and are currently pre-
paring to introduce instant non-sex to
the English. The ambience of the place
will be as American as hominy grits (a
“celebrity-packed” discotheque, illumin-
ated transparencies of naked bunnies in
the bar, your personal nameplate posted
in the lobby when you visit the club).
But the staff, or rather the bunnies, are
locally recruited. For the past few
months Radio London, one of the pirate
craft anchored on the long, grey swells of
the North Sea, has been advertising for
recruits. The drill is that, if you are
young and nubile, you send your photo-
graph to a sort of Mother Superior figure
at Park Lane called the Bunny Mother
who, if she likes the cut of your, uh, jib,
will grant you a personal interview. What
form this takes one can only surmise
(“I’m afraid the board is a little unhappy
about your wooden leg, Miss Smith”)
but, once over that hurdle, you are
equipped with your rabbit’s ears, fluffy
tail and scanty costume, and are ready
for training. Part of the training consists
of being taught to march up to a new
customer, flip your tail and say, ‘‘Good
evening, sir. I am Bunny Gladys. I am
your bunny for tonight.”
The basis of the “Playboy code” is
that you may look, but not touch. Place
a thoughtful hand on a soft shoulder
and you will find yourself (or so we have
been warned) out in the street. This
arrangement may work splendidly in
Baltimore; I’m a little dubious about its
prospects on this \side of the Atlantic.
For one thing, Londoners have grown up
shoulder to shoulder with the myriad
strip clubs of Soho and they’re pretty
blase about the undraped female form.
I have an uneasy feeling that Bunny
Gladys, mincing into the discotheque
with a tray of “Bloody Marys”, may
find the celebrities moodily eyeing her
cute sateen costume and shouting (with
all the justification in the world) “Take
it off”.
SUDDENLY, and with its customary
bad grace, spring has come. Recently a
man wrote to “The Times” to say he had
heard the first lawnmower. The other
day, on Hampstead Heath, I saw my
first crocus. It stood there, pure, pale
and softly touched with dew. After a
while people, hurrying home through
the cold, started treading on it. When it
was finally crushed and broken beyond
recognition, a dog with a limp wandered
up and ate it.
"Hey Mum — Here's Pop!"


Business trip to the U.5.A....
London...or beyond?
Don't buy your ticket until you
study these seven facts
aboutFanAm.
INo matter where your business calls you, Pan Am
has just the ticket—going and coming home. Pan Am
flies to 127 cities in 86 lands on 6 continents. No
other airline flies more jets to more places.
2 Pan Am’s world-wide reservations system takes the
trouble out of planning your extended business trips.
One telephone call from your secretary and your
tickets, itinerary, hotel reservations and baggage
details are all arranged.
3 No matter where you are in the world, Pan Am can
help you make your trip a success. With tips on
local business, climates, foreign exchange, sources
of business information, just to name a few things. In
many places Pan Am can even arrange
introductions to local businessmen.
A Pan Am’s wide choice of flights ’round the world
saves you hours of travel time. Straight-through
flights to the U.S.A., nonstop and straight-through
flights from the U.S.A. to 27 cities in Europe. Daily
’round the world flights from Europe. This means
extra time for work. Extra time to relax. Less time
away from home. Less time getting home.
5 Pan Am’s efficient in-flight and airport personnel
stay on top of those "little” details —that often turn
a business trip into a nightmare. (And just in case
things do get snarled, there are 900 Pan Am offices
throughout the world to help you with the unravelling.)
6 On a Pan Am flight your business trip is a pleasure.
Friendly, courteous cabin attendants see to your
every need. And the cuisine! C’est merveilleux!
(It's by Maxim’s of Paris.)
7 When you fly Pan Am you’re flying with the very
best—the World’s Most Experienced Airline. That
means you're confident. Assured. Ask any Pan Am
traveller. He'll tell you. It's a good feeling. Call
your Pan Am Travel Agent or call Pan Am.
World’s most
experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC
FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC
FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA
FIRST ROUND THE WORLD
if Ik
■SSSSSB
jet-^%'^.j/M.i^.3.5.Ji.3,
£
m
SYDNEY: 82 ELIZABETH STREET. 28-2621 • MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET. 63-9077
PA.4868R


How would you describe a label which could
be manufactured in paper, foil, acetate or
cloth, and which could be applied to any clean
smooth surface without using heat, moisture,
gum or glue? And supposing the label could
be of two types: Permanent or Removable.
Then toss in a 3 year guarantee, plus the
fact that these labels could be produced in any
shape and size. What would you have? What
would you call it?
No doubt, you’d say that this was quite a
label . . . something that could help trim
production costs . . . something that could be
used in all fields of manufacturing and
retailing.
These labels are fn existence today. As a matter
of fact, they've been used fn industry since
1935. And each day over five million Avery*
self-adhesive labels are used throughout the
world.
Avery Self-Adhesive Labels can help you.
There’s one tailor-made for you, and a phone
call (Cryer’s will be pleased to pay the charges)
will prove it. There’s an Avery man ready to
talk to you right now. * Avery Self-Adhesive
Labels are manufactured in Australia under
franchise by W. J. Cryer & Co. Ltd.
HOW
WOULD
YOU
DESCRIBE
A LABEL
LIKE
THIS ?
-H
c
r
' K,
•v . s
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 UNION STREET, DULWICH HILL, N.S.W. 560-7177
30 COTHAM ROAD, KEW, VICTORIA 86-7911
131 ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE, QLD. 2-8259
49 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A. 23-1504
ALI 2
WASHINGTON LETTER
Private Eyes
in Business
A modern morality tale
From ANTHONY HOWARD
IT is not every day that David fells
Goliath but that in effect is what
happened on Capitol Hill last week.
There in the old Caucus Room, in
the full glare of arc-lights and flashbulbs,
the head of the largest company in the
world twice offered his humble apologies
to a young American citizen of 32 who
had dared to criticise the American car
industry.
It was a dramatic ending to a modern
morality tale that has been unfolding for
the past three weeks and which got
lore and more incredible as it went
ng. Last November, after two years
of research, Mr Ralph Nader, a young,
briefless lawyer, published a book at-
tacking American motor car manufac-
turers. It was entitled “Unsafe at any
Speed”.
Although it was well reviewed in
minority periodicals, it did not imniedi-
'ly make much of a splash. But those
io actually produce motor cars were
.rious. Angriest of all was General
Motors —the king of the American motor
car business, which has recently been
nder considerable pressure over the
safety factor of its Corvair car.
With well over 100 personal injury
suits already filed against it, the legal
department of General Motors decided
that it was too dangerous to leave Mr
Nader’s detailed charges lying about un-
disputed on the record. Its first reaction
was a typical corporation one. It in-
vited Mr Nader to lunch in Detroit and
in a red-carpet atmosphere tried to per-
suade him to retract the more damaging
of his criticisms. Mr Nader refused to
do so, and remained unimpressed.
He might have been something more
than that had he known that at the time
when he was being soft-soaped in the
executive suite, in another part of the
organisation plans were being laid for
his reputation to be “examined”.
It is now established that as long ago
as the end of last year General Motors
had begun its negotiations through a third
party with a firm of private inquiry


All I said was:
“We’ll save money by hiring
Chef* Fork lifts and Pallets
jggiyijip& if&gg
"4 §y(
; m
mm
m
m
m
¥"W mmm -
$■
t! y- ■ m,,<
if i
© 9
.and they gave me a rise!”
Of course I did some research. I found that Chep have the
largest fleet of materials handling equipment in Australia.
They gave me the benefit of their advisory service. They
quoted me rates and showed me how I could save my
Company money. Now we hire fork lift trucks by the hour
or for long periods, as we need them.
Another thing that helped Chep have a fleet of mobile
radio-controlled workshops . . . Johnny-on-the-spot for
service and repairs. No more costly down-time.
Make your mark, mention Chep, the people who can put
your materials handling on a profitable footing.
tCH.B
CHEP Minogue Crescent,
Glebe, N.S.W., 68 4211.
CHEP Sandgate Road, Albion,
Brisbane, Queensland, 6 2181.
CHEP 205 Hanson Road, Athol Park,
Adelaide, 45 7922.
agents. The original board room in-
structions started off as simple: to find
out what connection, if any, Mr Nader
had with all the pending litigations that
threatened the survival of the Corvair
car.
Somehow, however, down the line, the
issue got much more muddy. The result
was a secret brief sent out in January
by the head of a New York private detec-
tive agency, Mr Vincent Gillen, to his
staff in which he defined their task as
being “to check Nader’s life and current
activities, to determine what makes him
tick, such as his real interest in safety, his
supporters if any, his politics, his marital
status, his women, boys, in fact all
facets of his life”.
Last week Mr Gillen was the star turn
of the Senate investigation into the whole
affair. He was the outraged citizen who
simply could not understand what all
the fuss was about.
“That’s how the ball bounces.” “Now
come on, Senator, let’s not kid ourselves.”
“I just say, ‘Well, these things happen’ ”
every cliche from the he-man world
of American business came trotting from
his lips. In its way his was a much more
open and direct performance than that
put up by General Motors. Never mind
that the firm had first categorically denied
having anything to do with any in-
vestigation of Mr Nader; even when, ad-
mitting a check on his possible contacts
with prospective litigants it had omitted
to mention a week-long continuous per-
sonal surveillance. Everything was
cleared up by phrases about “a failure
of communications”, “unfortunate mis-
understandings”, and “seeing things now
in a very different light”.
worked out amazingly well, at
least for Mr James Roche, General
Motors’ 59-year-old president (the two
company lawyers, as befitted underlings,
were somewhat less lucky). Far from
being chastised by the committee, Mr
Roche ended up by being congratulated.
In the words of the chairman, Senator
Abraham Ribicoff, he had shown “a sen-
sitive appreciation of all that it involved”;
according to Senator Robert Kennedy he
had “raised his stature”; in the eyes of
Senator Fred Harris, his attitude had
been “befitting a man of standing who
leads a great corporation”.
It was not, perhaps, Mr Nader alone
who found the end of the whole affair
“rather bizarre”. True, he had won his
victory. Mr Roche had formally apologis-
ed to him handsomely and graciously for
what Senator Ribicoff at one stage called
“a deliberate effort to smear and down-
grade a man”.
But had not the real issues at stake
been smothered? If so, it was certainly


t
&
£
If
I
I
if
if
if
I
i
r
r
r
if
if
i
i
ir
ir
24 hour room service!
A cup of tea, a magnum of cham-
pagne, a sandwich, a sumptuous meal -
theyTe yours at any hour of the day or
night - at Menzies. Right in the heart
of Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
conti'olled air-conditioning. The under-
ground car park, right in the hotel is
free. Restaurants and bars cater for
every taste. Emperor Room Theatre
Restaurant features gourmet menu with
famous musicals nightly at 9.30. Single
Rooms from $10.50. Doubles from
$13.50. (Special rates for children.)
ffi-jrffrr '•liffnCJffi ftp
Mij'izfeyj
. rn=Bn~i i ir'pr~nti PP Er
irr rr rr rr rn pp nn
r r rr rr rr .rr rr. rr
r n rr rr rr rr rr rr
r r r r rr rfr fifi rn r r
r n nn..rn nr nn nr nr
r n rr rn rr rr rn n n
rr r.r rr..rr rr. i;r.n:
T
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
14 CARRINGTON ST. TEL. 2-0232.
CABLES “mENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: Victoria - Menzies, MELBOURNE;
Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE; Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. Queensland - Lennons,
BRISBANE; Lennons, TOOWOOMBA. South Australia - Hotel Australia, NORTH
ADELAIDE. Tasmania - Wrest Point Riviera, HOBART.
MZI/44
no fault of Mr Nader’s. His whole open-
ing statement was an invitation to the
committee to consider the problems posed
by the mammoth (and normally unbrid-
led) power the vast corporations today
wield in the US. Of the committee mem-
bers only Senator Kennedy had any real
grasp of this central issue, and even he
failed to follow it through with Mr Roche.
“1 am,” Mr Nader declared, “respon-
sible for my actions, but who is respon-
sible for General Motors’? An individual’s
basic capital is his integrity. He can
lose only once. A corporation can lose
many times and not be affected. The
unequal contest between the individual
and any complex organisation is some-
thing that ought to bear the closest
scrutiny.”
I>ut it was precisely that scrutiny that
the committee in the end failed to
provide. It was hard to know why, but
there are certainly those who attribute
it to the power of great corporations.
But next month the Senate plans a full-
scale inquiry into the whole matter.
Yet in a week which saw not only the
Nader case but also a revelation of how
the drug manufacturing companies com-
bine to place an industrial spy in a
wholesaling firm that had dared to defy
their “suggested prices”, even the most
liberal Senators still cheerfu’ly voted in
committee against any Federal control
over the sale and purchase of guns.
How long the sprawling power and
the cosy shelter enjoyed by great cor-
porate organisations will go on being
the ungrasped nettle of American public
life is anyone’s guess. But if precedence
is anything to go by, last week will have
changed nothing. For there is a melan-
choly pattern to American business scan-
dals: a contrite public relations statement
is made, an executive or two is sacked,
and then life goes on as before. In the
General Electric price-fixing affair, in
the Chrysler conflict of interests case,
even in the much more lurid Billie Sol
Estes swindle, there was certainly an
initial moment of shock. But in each in-
stance it did not take long for it to give
way to a cynical grumble and a worldly-
wise shrug.
If there is a disease eating away at
American business, it is not wickedness
or even greed; it is a blase indifference—
an indifference that even the sight of
a great corporation having to pick itself
up off the floor and dust its clothes down
has probably done little to challenge.
That, as the Damon Runyon figure
of the General Motors-hired detective
might have said, is “the way the cookie
crumbles”.


LETTERS
Yevtushenko
SIR.— May I — a voice in a void —
say something in support of Charles
Higham? Certain literary gentlemen (one
at least of whom has a financial axe to
grind) have censured him for his criti-
cism of Yevtushenko. Mr Higham may or
may not be right in his assessment of this
poet's work. But, as he points out in his
reply (B., March 26), the same goes for
all judgments expressed by those not
bi-lingual in English and Russian —
which in this country takes in most of
us. What saddens me is the spectacle of
a public, content for the most part to
shrug off our local poets (even those
who have labored long and honorably in
their profession) with such remarks as:
“I don’t understand poetry,” flocking to
acclaim a visiting poet whose work, by
reason of the language barrier, is virtually
incomprehensible.
Lisa Mitchell
Wollstonecraft {NSW).
SIR. — To suggest as does Charles High-
am (B., March 26) that in appreciat-
ing Yevtushenko one is making “social
significance the sole yardstick of the
merit of poetry”, is manifestly absurd.
While it is true that the musicality,
spontaneity and vividness of his verse
is frequently reduced or lost in trans-
lation, no serious critic with feeling for
poetic form could deny Yevtushenko
lyrical gifts of a high order. If there is, in
fact, any quality from the whole range
of form and content that appears singu-
larly characteristic of his poetry, it is
the controlled passion manifested in its
sounds and rhythms. This must be quite
obvious even to a non-Russian-speaking
critic when he hears it read in the
original. The fact that Yevtushenko’s
themes often reveal a non-conformist in-
dividuality and a highly sensitive social
conscience, is surely a matter for satis-
faction rather than for implied censure.
Boris Christa
University of Queensland
Brisbane {Qld).
SIR.—Charles Higham’s premature casti-
gation of Yevtushenko seems particularly
unfortunate in that thousands of Austra-
lians who, perforce, must usually rely on
translations of any European poetry, have
for once had an opportunity of hearing
foreign verse read in its own language.
One may or may not admire Yevtushen-
ko’s manner of reading. One may or may
not admire what his poetry says. But
the Penguin translators did in their intro-
duction explain why they had not attemp-
ted to reproduce the strong rhythms of
the originals, and in the public readings
strong rhythms and rhymes were what
did come through to the audience with
an impact which (as Geoffrey Dutton
remarks) sent listeners “reeling”. Any-
thing less like “chopped-up prose” would
be difficult to imagine.
Higham is, of course, perfectly entitled
to his opinion of “Zima Junction” but
how he can describe the later poems in
the Penguin selection as “mostly simple
homilies” when among them is “Babiy
Yar” I do not understand. “Babiy Yar”
is (even in the flattened Penguin trans-
lation) the most powerful anti-anti-
Semitic writing I have ever read.
Nancy Keesing
Hunters Hill (NSW).
Optimistic Treasury
SIR.—In his article, “Finding Alumin-
ium Exports”, subtitled “Are Treasury
Forecasts too Optimistic?” (8., March
19), Mr J. G. Hardy says that the
chances of Australia exporting $6O
million worth of bauxite-alumina-alu-
minium in 1970, as suggested by the
Treasury in its recent supplement to the
“Treasury Information Bulletin” on the
Australian balance of payments, “seem
very slim indeed”. The Treasury view, it
is said, is “remarkably optimistic”. This
charge, though refreshing, happens to
be unwarranted.
Australia is already an exporter of
aluminium, exports in 1965 being valued
at about $9 million. If we accept Mr
Hardy’s estimate of home demand of
11,000 tons in 1970, “existing and plan-
ned smelter capacity in Australia” by that
date will" on present knowledge, exceed
it by some 40,000 tons, as follows: Com-
alco, 70,000 tons (by 1967); Alcoa,
40,000 tons; and Australuco, 30,000-
40,000 tons (by 1969). Has Mr Hardy
overlooked the last of these? It would be
somewhat inexplicable if he had, for,
apart from general knowledge, it is, in
fact, plainly referred to on page 58 of
the Treasury paper. If he has not, how
can he justify his statement?
The Treasury paper was not, con-
trary to the implication in Mr Hardy’s
article, dogmatic on any of these matters.
The authors would, no doubt, be a good
deal more confident about the outcome
in regard to mineral exports as a whole
in 1970 (which, incidentally, they put at
around $550 million, not $420 million as
stated by Mr Hardy) than about the pre-
cise outcome in respect of one particular
mineral. Time will tell. At present, how-
ever, nothing in Mr Hardy’s article gives
any ground for questioning the reason-
ableness of the views stated by the
Treasury in respect of exports of bauxite-
alumina-aluminium in 1970.
PETER KELLY
Press Secretary to the Treasurer
Sydney (NSW).
“ON OUR SELECTION”
THE BULLETIN apologises to
Josephine Bell and its readers for an
error in decimalisation in her article
about the drought, “On Our Selec-
tion”, in the issue of March 26. In
converting to dollars, the shilling
symbol was misread as a £. To read
the article correctly, $l9O should read
$9.50; $7O, $3.50; $BO-$lOO, $B-$10;
and $4-$5, $0.40-$0.50. Josephine
Bell’s moving story does not deserve
the additional burden of a decimalisa-
tion mistake and we regret it.
Sweden and Defence
SIR.—Mr Brian Buckley, with that un-
soured objectivity which becomes him
so well, lately reviewed the collection,
“Aspects of Australia’s Defence” (8.,
March 26). But this does not help him to
reveal my arguments, which have nothing
to do with kindness or ideology, and
may be summarised simply: no country
in this region will in the visible future
have the logistic superiority to attack
us; measured against the actual capacity
of any possible enemy we have enough
human and material resources to protect
ourselves; the American alliance, based
on crusaderism and false assumptions,
ignores our geographical position and
contains more dangers than advantages.
In certain conditions it would be un-
reliable. This makes me a Left-“isola-
tionist” . . . just like the people, Tories
and Labor, of Fortress Sweden? Mr
Buckley has discovered that Sweden is
isolationist. One day he may explain
what makes him think so, also why our
position is so much weaker, more ex-
posed and threatened that we dare not
study her example, and why Australia is
so poor that, unlike Sweden, she can’t
pay for her security. We are going to
hear a lot about Sweden.
DAVID MARTIN
East Coburg (Vic.).
Holt and Menzies
SIR. —It was a great pleasure to read
the article “Holt’s First Month” (8.,
March 19). This excellent article will do
much to counter the altogether unde-
sirable publicity which was given to his
spearfishing activities in the early days
of his assuming office. Many of us feel
that Mr Holt will make a worthy suc-
cessor to Sir Robert Menzies as a true
Australian with courage to support his
Government's views on the big political
issues, both at home and abroad.
(SIR) ARTHUR STEPHENSON
Melbourne {Vic.).
Save Our Sons
SIR.—As convenor of the Save Our
Sons movement I take strong exception
to the distortions presented in the “Who


ft.
Many ships, many trips for on-time cargo delivery
Farrell Lines’ 21 trans-oceanic cargo vessels make 84
voyages a year to and from United States East Coast ports.
Over five sailings monthly from Africa to U. Si Atlan-
tic and Great Lakes ports. 15 trans-Atlantic cargo vessels and
12 feeder fleet vessels serve all three ocean coasts of Africa.
And, on Farrell Lines, it’s only 14 days from Cape Town to New
York! Faster than any other line —more ships, more trips, too.
18 trips a year from Australia/New Zealand to U. S.
Gulf and East Coast ports. Six trans-Pacific cargo vessels serve
“Down Under”...ports-of-call from Fremantle to Wellington.
So for on-time cargo delivery, you can count on
Farrell Lines’ fleet-and 40 years of experience.
ship via Farrell Lines
An American Flag Line Serving
Growing World Markets
FARRELL LINES INTERNATIONAL LINAR HOUSE, BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
AGENTS: Wilh Wilhelmsen Agency Pty. Ltd. Linar House, 1315 Bridge Street, Sydney, Australis.
Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Limited, P.O. Box 959, Auckland, New Zealand.


C7tS
~iiiimiim,iiMiii!miiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiii>iiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiim:iiiiiiin?
PETER O'SHAUGHNESSY
33J RPM BULLETIN RECORD
SPIRIT OF ANZAC
Available for only $1 post-free. The noted Aus-
tralian actor presents specially recorded excerpts,
evoking the spirit of soldiering, from the works
of William Charles Wentworth, C. J. Dennis, lan
Mudie, A. B. Paterson, John Manifold, John Mase-
field and Alan Seymour.
BULLETIN BUST
OF MENZIES
We have arranged for the casting of a limited
number of life-size plaster copies of Tanner's
bust of Sir Robert Menzies, which appeared on
the cover of the January 29 issue of The Bulletin.
These are available to readers for $lO (£5)
each, post-free.
Available for only $1 post-free. It has two of
the hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie's
"The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications"—with a new ski song especially
composed for this record.
.MiiitiiiiiiiiKiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif
>
TO
C
r.ummiiummiiiimimmmimiiiiiiimmiiiimmiiinmiijimmmiimmmiimiiiiiimimiiii"
For each record send $1 (a cheque or postal note, not cash) to "BULLETIN RECORDS", BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY and for each bust $lO (cheaue
or postal note, not cash) to "BULLETIN SCULPTURE", BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY, together with the coupon and address label below. Both records
, may also be P urcll ased over the counter from the PAPER SALES DEPARTMENT, sth FLOOR, TELEGRAPH HOUSE, 168 CASTLEREAGH STREET
SYDNEY, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. '
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN BUST
OF MENZ9ES
BULLETIN ANZAC
RECORD
BULLETIN BARRY
HUMPHRIES' RECORD
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN RECORD(S) ONLY
BULLETIN BUST(S) ONLY
Cross out item(s) not packed
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name...
Address.
State.
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
are the fß.,
March 26) with particular reference to
that section of the article which deals
with the Save Our Sons movement and
its origin.
1 wish to make it very clear to all
concerned that SOS did not have its
origin as this ill-founded article states.
It -was not the direct product of the
Union of Australian Women but was
instigated by myself and other mothers
of 20-year-olds who were strongly op-
posed to the legislation introducing con-
scription for overseas during peace time,
for a period of two years, or possibly
r. F . . . ’ V ..
five years, taking into account Section
27 of the National Service Act. In
October, 1964, when this legislation was
about to be implemented, I started con-
tacting other mothers of boys eligible
for conscription.
From then until May last year it was
my main thought that there must be
other women who felt as I did and
gradually I came in contact with some.
In the meantime I had joined a deputa-
tion of women to Canberra and was one
of four who interviewed the then
Minister for the Army, Dr Forbes.
Among other things I conveyed then to
Dr Forbes that I would organise until
women in all States of Australia joined
in opposition to the Government’s con-
scription plans. By May last year I had
contacted a number of mothers in a
similar position to myself. We met on
May 13 to discuss what could be done.
All were enthusiastic to form a mothers’
organisation and the name Save Our
c , XT c ~. c , ,
Sons was chosen. Now SOS has spread
to nearly all States and to country
centres. This SOS has done without the
aid, influence or motivating force of the
Communist Party of Australia or any
other organisation.
MRS J. GOLGERTH
Convenor, Save Our Sons movement
Pennant Hills (NSW).
Civil Liberties
SIR. Several Victorian members of
Council for Civil Liberties
propose to found a Victorian Council
or Civil Liberties, following an inaugural
public meeting at 120 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, on the 19th April, 1966, at
8 p.m.
The proposed aims of the Victorian
CCL are to investigate and take up
matters involving freedom of speech
publication, assembly and organisation’
as well as police conduct; censorship’
• i j- • • • , . .
racial discrimination, oopressive admini-
. . .. , ... . „
deprivation of liberty of all
m S ‘. e councl wou pursue its aims
Vl ® i ance ’ publicity, protest and
nancing legal representation in appro-
priate cases, and would press for the
appointment of an ombudsman,
JOHN BENNETT
South Yarra (Vic.).


One of tbe five 50-ton Hautpaks with special side dump bodies used for iron ore haulage at Cockatoo island,
V **.*-'\\
v ~i.
&*£&:** ,
; ' Ir'* r
s■&>
N f- 'i*
it to mh eau- wmtN^^oysE
w
Hil
BM
asa mms*
.
■ 8 :
>m
WITH I MIGHT 01
LW
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, QLD. ■ BAUXITE MINING, OLD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
m
E for EXPORT
it earthmoeinf equipment manufacturer
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINBHOUSEPTYITD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW249.1Q6


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Bought Jones, £4.155.
Strange route from Bologna to Brisbane
By LAURIE THOMAS
Director of the Queensland Art Gallery
THE Flagellation of Christ.
Relief in red wax on a wooden
ground, 18| in. x 29 in.
Queensland Art Gallery.
A sixteenth-century red wax relief
model recently presented to the Queens-
land Art Gallery by the director of the
adjoining museum, had been seemingly
lost since 1894.
In that year it came up for sale at
Christie’s in London as “a large relief in
wax, representing The Flagellation of
Christ a model made by G. di Bol-
ogna for the bronze relief in the great
west door of Pisa Cathedral —in walnut-
wood case, with folding doors,” bt. Jones,
£4.155.
Somehow, the model found its way to
the Queensland Museum early in the
present century, before the present system
of cataloguing was introduced in 1911.
A perceptive curator had since written
in ink on the wooden case, cf. Bologna
Italian late 16th century and he prob-
ably made this guess by comparing the
model with the style of another work by
Giovanni Bologna illustrated in a small
handbook, “Victoria and Albert Museum,
100 Masterpieces, Renaissance and
Modern” (plate 45), which the Museum
bought in 1933. In any case he was right.
But the work was then more or less for-
gotten again and set aside, the Museum
being primarily a scientific institution,
until it took the attention of the senior
preparator, Donald Vernon, who hus-
banded it for years as a work of special
value. When the present director of the
Museum, Mr Jack Woods, took office, he
was infected by Vernon’s enthusiasm, had
the object cleaned up and showed it to
me last year.
Photographs were taken of the model
from different angles and my then off-’
sider, Robert Smith, took up the detective
work. He wrote to Genoa, where it was
known there was a bronze relief of the
same subject and, after receiving a photo-
graph of the bronze, apparently identical
with the model, was encouraged to write
to John Pope-Hennessy, Keeper of the
Department of Architecture and Sculp-
ture in the Victoria and Albert Museums.
What follows is taken largely from
Mr Pope-Hennessy’s correspondence and
from notes in his three-volume catalogue
of Italian sculpture in the Victoria and
Albert:
Giovanni Bologna, who was born at
Douai in 1529, went to Italy in 1555,
settled in Florence in 1557 and worked
there until he died in 1608. In 1579
Giovanni made a short visit to Genoa
and accepted a commission to make,
among other sculptures, six bronze reliefs
for the Grimaldi Chapel in San Fran-
cesco di Castelletto, though the work was
to be executed in Florence.
The bronzes were completed, it is
thought, about five or six years later and
installed, but, on the demolition of San
Francesco di Castelletto in 1815, they
were moved to the university where they
now are. However, the wax models for
the bronzes have had a history of their
own.
Four of them, now known as Christ
Brought before Caiaphas, Ecce Homo,
Christ led from Judgment and The Flag-
ellation of Christ, were sold at Christie’s
in 1785 for five guineas to the sculptor
Nollekens and resold at the Nollekens
sale in 1823. However, by 1858, the
Flagellation had become separated from
the other three models.
These three were bought in 1870 for
£2.105. by a dealer named Benjamin
from the sale of Sir James Vallentin’s
collection, sold to some Italian dealers in
London and then to a dealer in Florence,
and there bought in 1878 by Mr Francis
Austen from whom the V&A acquired
them in 1879 for £157.105. each. The
missing Flagellation then re-appeared in
1894, “bt. Jones, £4.155.”.
At some time in its career it has been
damaged and restored in parts. The head
of Christ is the work of a restorer and
so are the raised arms of the flagellator
on the viewer’s left, the head of the figure
between Christ and the flagellator, the
hilt of the sword on the right foreground
figure and other minor restorations.
Nevertheless, the wax relief model now
so generously presented by the Museum
to the Gallery is undoubtedly the original
work of Giovanni and undoubtedly a rare
and valuable work worth many thousands
of times the prices it and its companions
brought in their early sales.
Middy’s 1001 uses for your Tanner
bust of Menzies
"It's all right dear, it's only me!"


Why it is Curtains for the Tivoli
By LLOYD MARTIN
Joint managing director, Tivoli Circuit Ltd
At the Tivoli Theatre, Sydney, on
March 26, the curtain fell on our
final revue and people are still
asking, “Why?” I’ll try to tell you.
The prime causes, of course, are
economic. Costs have risen to a positively
frightening level. Rehearsal salaries are
a case in point. Not so many years ago
we could produce a show with little or
no rehearsal expenses. The principals
would be earning above what is known
as the “cut-off” figure for rehearsal fees.
The others would mostly be on salary
for a current show and able to rehearse
without fee for the next show. Now
most artists have to be paid for all re-
hearsals, while at the same time the
“cut-off” figure is constantly rising.
Not for a moment do I suggest players
should not be paid for rehearsals. > 1
would go so far as to say they don't get
enough. I merely instance this as one of
the added costs helping to make produc-
tion uneconomic. Then again, all labor
and material costs have risen steeply.
The revue just closed a well-dressed
but not elaborately staged show cost
$35,000 to produce.. A few years ago
we could have put on the same show for
$lO,OOO. The minimum cost of staging
an ordinary musical today would be
$70,000.
Our running costs are also up
enormously. For reasons I am at a loss
to explain, except that a lot of the work
they do is for the Government, we have
to employ many more managers and
accountants than ever before. It will be
appreciated, too, that because of the age
of our theatres —the Sydney Tivoli is 55
years old, the Melbourne Tivoli 65
maintenance needs are heavy and costly.
The next reason for our decision to
close is the decreasing box-office return.
In actual figures, we are taking just as
much money as before, but it is coming
from far fewer people. A weekly take
of, say, $15,000, would once have rep-
resented an attendance of 10,000 people.
Today it means an attendance of only
about 7000.
This means that runs are shorter,
making it impossible for us to recover
production costs. In other words, we
have successes, but we don’t make any
profit from them.
Contributing to the box-office fall-off
is a world-wide lack of quality product
such as to make it impossible to sustain
a 52-week policy. The alternative is to
offer a second-class product and we
have, perforce, done this; knowingly—in
an effort to keep the theatre open and
the people connected with it in employ-
ment. For it is this termination of em-
ployment which has distressed us most.
But a second-class product is soon re-
flected in the box-office and merely piles
up losses.
This brings me to another reason
opposition entertainment. It has to be
said that television ranks No. 1 here. It
is increasingly difficult to coax people
away from the cosy armchair theatre.
Almost as important, especially in the
field of entertainment in which the
Tivoli has mostly operated, is the counter-
attraction in NSW of the licensed clubs
and night clubs.
It has become increasingly manifest
that the number of dedicated theatre-
goers is sufficient only to support the
small fringe theatres.
Let’s compare the position here with
London and New York. New York
works on a hit-or-miss system. If a
show doesn't take, they cut their losses
and close, even after two or three per-
formances.
This is possible because financing


methods are different. The entrepreneur,
or producer as he is called there, finds
the show, the cast, a director and a
theatre, then enters into a limited
partnership with a backer.
The producer rarely uses his own
money. If the show clicks, the backer
has his money returned first, then any
subsequent profits are shared between
backer and producer. The theatre
owner is separate again. All he provides
is four walls, usually on a two weeks’
minimum guarantee.
Australian productions have to carry
costs non-existem in London or New
York. Fares, toi instance. To bring out
one star costs $l2OO. In London or New
York, if a star falls ill, finding a replace-
ment is comparatively easy. Not so here.
So what are the possible solutions to
the crisis facing theatre in Australia?
First we have to rethink our economics.
And to this end it is surely better to
close a theatre when a show is losing
money and no other box-office attrac-
tion is available.
We must also reduce overhead Costs
by minimising the number of permanent
staff and by -rationalising production.
One way to do this would be to set up
in Sydney and Melbourne one only pro-
duction unit to build shows make
scenery, props and costumes for all
managements. At present each com-
mercial management and also the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust has its own costly
production unit.
We must also seek to obtain outside
finance and to separate the functions of
entrepreneur and theatre owner.
Again, we must learn from the suc-
cessful shows. The two most successful
shows in the past year were the Ballet
Africains and Barry Humphries both
low-cost shows presented for limited
seasons.
The pointer here is that to succeed
you need something with a strong appeal
for a limited special audience, or some-
thing that is unusual. I would say there
were people who went to see the Ballet
Africains who had never been to a
theatre before.
There are undoubtedly many such box-
office attractions available, but not nearly
enough to keep even one theatre going
all year round, let alone more. In addi-
tion, we need to create our own person-
alities and to glamorise them and the
theatre generall} as is done by other
entertainment interests.
And finally we need an all-out pub-
licity campaign, using the all-powerful
mediums of the Press and television to
convey to the public the benefits to be
received from an evening at the theatre.
Heroes of the TV Wasteland
From GEORGE McGANN in New York
Among the handful of heroes who
deserve to have their names en-
shrined in glory somewhere in US
television’s vast wasteland are Hollywood
film directors George Stevens and Otto
Preminger. They are among the tiny
minority who have struggled valiantly
in the cause of the viewer.
Stevens and Preminger have long been
noted for the strong individual stamp of
their films. Stevens’ version of the Theo-
dore Dreiser classic, “An American Tra-
gedy”, a film entitled “A Place in the
Sun”, won six Academy Awards, includ-
ing one for direction. Preminger has
produced and directed a long string of
outstanding films, notably “Anatomy of
a Murder”.
The insatiable maw of television pro-
gramming has been ingesting more and
more Hollywood films, and an increas-
ing number of prime time evening view-
ing hours are now given over to them.
This will become even more marked in
future, we are told, since Hollywood
film studios intend to make most of their
products specifically for television. No
one can quarrel seriously with this use
of old films by television. But a lot of
people, among them Stevens and Pre-
minger, j object violently to the abuse
of these films by the networks.
The most maddening abuse is the
constant interruption of the film for com-
mercials. The American TV viewer fre-
quently is subjected to as many as 40
commercials in a two-hour programme.
Critics have long deplored the mutila-
tion of films by TV but it remained for
Stevens and Preminger to do something
about it. They went to court in an
attempt to preserve the integrity of “A
Place in the Sun” and “Anatomy of a
Murder” when the time came for these
films to go through the TV hopper.
Preminger brought a suit in the New
York Supreme Court against Columbia
Pictures, for which he had produced
“Anatomy” and which had sold the film
in a package deal to 101 TV stations.
He asked the court to enjoin Columbia
and its subsidiary TV company, Screen
Gems, from cutting the original film
without his approval. Preminger had
given Columbia the right to sell the film
for television, but maintained that his
original contract with the company,
which gave him the right to determine
“the final form and content of my film”,
extended to its showings on television.
Nevertheless, Supreme Court Justice
Arthur Klein, whose decision was await-
ed by the entire TV industry with the
keenest interest, rejected the producer’s
plea for an injunction.
Meanwhile, Stevens had taken legal
action on the other coast to prevent the
National Broadcasting Company from
showing “A Place in the Sun” over its
TV network, pending trial of his suit
for 2 million dollars’ damages iF the
film were “emasculated or mutilated”
for television purposes.
Stevens appeared to win a victory of
a kind when Los Angeles Superior Court
Judge Ralph Nutter ruled that although
he could not prohibit commercial inter-
ruptions of the film, NBC could not
televise the film in a manner that would
“emasculate” its artistic or pictorial
quality or interfere with its mood and
continuity.
However, when NBC put “A Place in
the Sun” on its TV network the follow-
ing Saturday night, the film received the
standard TV treatment. Stevens com-
mented bitterly: “I counted 42 different
plugs. It was the usual butchery.”
Contending NBC had placed itself in
contempt of court by violating Judge
Nutter's warning against “emasculation”,
Stevens said he would press his damage
suit against NBC and its affiliate, Para-
mount Pictures, a trial expected to begin
in about a month.
TELEVISION
One Half So Dull
Ffco you wonder often what the TV
programme arrangers do on Sun-
days, one half so dull as the programmes
they serve to viewers? Such as, on a very
recent Sunday, two Jane Withers movies,
four hours of repeat series, another seven
hours of old movies, and an hour of
Billy Thorpe and the Aztecs, up to 6 p.m.
Once, in the time of “old” radio,
Saturday night used to be the rubbish
night of the week, on a theory that
“everybody goes out on Saturday night”.
This was true of perhaps half a million,
leaving at that time another million un-
satisfied customers. Television seems as
sure that nobody stays home on Sunday
afternoons. Supposing that at most this
is half true, what of the remaining million
in Sydney or Melbourne?
Viewers are not quite so badly off in
Melbourne,' where on the same recent
Sunday there were only four old movies,
only three hours of old series, two hours
of teenage entertainment, more than four
hours of sport, and actually a few mo-
ments of general interest programmes.
In a concentrated effort to treat all
Sunday viewers as witless, the ABC is
almost as bad an offender as any. And
it lacks the excuse that Sunday is a
losing proposition, commercially.
The ABC does make sense in omitting
any programme for teenagers, who are
more likely to be out than their elders.
It recognises that some adults might be


/»••••#«• ••• • •••••• ••• \
••• AM* *«*•• • ••••• • \
• •• •••
•• * •••
GOT IT
TAPED?
ITS SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . . .
By installing the Smith-Corona "Typetromc 2215", you
will introduce automatic operation into your office
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OF SMITH-CORONA MAR CHANT INC.
pS* s^ Distributed by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 2033 © 167 Queen Street. Melbourne- 67 9161
home on Sundays, and gives them a re-
peat of “Four Corners” and an hour of
“British Report”. HSV in Melbourne lays
its two hours of sports discussion on
the altar of Rules football, but also pro-
grammes “Fighting Words” in the after-
noon, instead of 11.15 p.m. as in Sydney.
Even “International Showtime” is at
2 p.m. on GTV, while non-circus buffs
can see “International Zone”, a public
interest programme, at 2. But Sydney
viewers are given a marvellous choice at
that time; any one of three ancient
movies or Channel 10’s test pattern. In
general, Sunday programming in Sydney
reveals ABC neglect, and a defeatist sales
policy by the commercial channels. The
first to cater for reasonably intelligent
people will find an audience. There are
a million of us.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
Automation
Berioska Dance Company. Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Melbourne.
fThtE Berioska Dance Company of Mos-
cow has all the brilliance, spectacle,
skill, artistry and taste of Radio City
Music Hall or a 1933 Hollywood musical,
Russian-style —“42nd Ulitsa”, perhaps.
A better chorus line has surely not exis-
ted in the history of the theatre and the
individual artists, when allowed a few
steps of their own, show tremendous
verve and technical ability, combined
with considerable charm and a delightful
sense of fun. But the company can only
be judged by Western music-hall stan-
dards, because any ethnic or artistic foun-
dations of their dances have long ago
been submerged in automation.
The choreography, costumes and music
are pure unadulterated corn, sweetened
by the natural charm of the Russian folk
element. This mish-mash is presented
with such fantastic skill and panache that
the result is an excellent evening’s enter-
tainment which will appeal immensely to
Mum and Dad, or Dad and Dave, but
may infuriate aesthetes, highbrows and
other arty types.
The unexpected omission of any rele-
vant background facts from the 32-page
programme is surprising. When a com-
pany travels half-way round the world,
one expects more than crass press-agen-
try. There is an almost mystic suppression
of anything which could guide interest
away from the woman to whom all the
credit obviously belongs and who shall
not have the satisfaction of seeing her
name in print here. The success of her
venture is due mostly to the talents of
her dancers (who also sing and play in-
struments on occasion) and one can
carry team spirit too far in submerging
the cult of the individual. I cannot resist
quoting verbatim from the full page list-
ing the orchestra in the programme:
Bayan Ist (1 person)
Bayan 2nd (1 person)
Bayan 3rd (1 person)
Bayan 4th (1 person)
and so on.
And since the orchestra obviously has
a virtuoso in its midst, here is the credit
he gets: >
SOLOIST
Tamborine, Clappers, Wooden Spoons,
Cymbals, Bells (1 person)
It is not hard to see why “persons”
of outstanding ability, or just simple
“persons” such as make up the great
Russian people, defect to a society which
gives credit where credit is due.
JOHN CARGHER
Keep Billionaires
off the Moon
Night Of The Auk. Arch Obler. New
Theatre, Sydney.
Arms And The Man. George Bernard Shaw,
Genesian Theatre, Sydney.
“ly'mH'r of the Auk” is science fiction
prophecy with the warning: “The
hydrogen bombs will get you if you don’t
watch out.” The setting is the cabin of a
lunar space ship in which five Ameri-
cans are returning from the first moon
landing. Six men went on the lunar
journey but one has been left on the
moon in horrifying and suspicious cir-
cumstances.
This is an unusual space expedition
in that it has been launched by private
enterprise. The leader, heir to billions,
is as twisted as a corkscrew. Not only
does he think nothing of a couple of
space murders, but, by his inordinate
egotism, he eventually manages to trig-
ger off a nuclear holocaust.
Most of us are not in favor of the
world being blown up, but people tend
to disagree about how to avoid this.
Keep twisted billionaires out of space,
seems to be Arch Obler’s prescription.
I would be in favor of keeping blank
verse out of space too. Admittedly,
space conversation to date has not been
scintillating. Mr Obler’s space men
normally speak with realistic banality,
but when they get excited they switch
over into blank verse; not a change for
the better.
I liked William Bower’s space ship
interior and the flashing red, green and
orange lights accompanied by loud
whirrings, cries of “Strap in!” and
blackouts, which presaged that someone
was about to die, faint or just flip.
The Genesian Theatre’s mid-week of-
fering is a pleasant production of Shaw’s
pleasant play. Subtitled “an anti-
romantic comedy”, “Arms and the Man”
is set in the comic-opera country of Bul-
garia, a newly emerged national State.
Romanticism is represented by the Pet-
koffs, especially Catherine and her
daughter Raina. Realism is embodied in
Captain Bluntschli, a Swiss mercenary
soldier.
My only criticism of John Moroney’s
careful production is that it is under-
stated. More histrionics on the part of
the romantics would have pointed up
Captain Bluntschli’s matter-of-factness
and given the production more gusto.
Peter Carroll gives a good perform-
ance as Captain Bluntschli and May
Pusey is stylish as the warm-hearted
Catherine Petkoff. Bernard Hides’ decor-
ative settings in black and white add
much to the charm of the production.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


BOOKS
Kennedy, Son of Light
By SAM LIPSKI
A Thousand Days. Arthur M. Schlesinger
Jnr. Andre Deutsch. $6.50.
“As soon as the politician dresses him-
self up in fancy clothes, glamoris-
ing his office and his power, the intellec-
tual is a sucker for his favors; and the
American intellectual, it seems to me
although one should be able to assume
he is beyond the age of consent, was
raped by President Kennedy.”
So wrote the British journalist Henry
Fairlie in “Commentary” magazine last
year. He was wrong, of course Ken-
nedy did not rape the American intel-
lectuals. He did not have to. They had
been sitting around for sc long as wall-
flowers in the interregnum of Truman
and Eisenhower that when Kennedy
showed the slightest interest in them they
were only too glad to return it. As
Arthur Schlesinger makes clear in this
dazzling study of the brief three years
of the Kennedy presidency, it was more
like easy seduction than rape. Indeed,
it is not carrying the metaphor too far
to say that Schlesinger’s book can be
seen as a celebration, if a remarkably
frank one, of the love affair between
Kennedy and the intellectuals.
In the “Commentary” article Fairlie
complained that the intellectual had no
business being involved in politics be-
cause it corrupted him, and because he
was unfitted by the very fact of his being
an intellectual from making effective
political decisions. Instead, he should
remain forever the outsider—an eternal
conscience, gadfly, and nay-sayer.
When Schlesinger, the Pulitzer prize-
winning historian and Harvard Democrat,
accepted the position as Special Assistant
to the President, he was certainly un-
abashedly open about the risks.
In a chapter called “The Hour of
Euphoria” Schlesinger, with typical
honesty, writes revealingly of Washina-
„, . ,
ton s mood when Kennedy took over.
Having detailed the incredibly versatile
range of achievement and talent to be
found among the New Frontiersmen, he
admits: “One could not deny a sense of
New Frontier auto-intoxication—one felt
it oneself. The pleasures of power, so
long untasted, were now being happily
devoured the chauffeur-driven limou-
sines, the special telephones, the top-
secret documents, the personal aides, the
meetings in the Cabinet room, the calls
from the President . . . above all Ken-
nedy held out such promise of ’ hope,
Intelligence at last was being applied to
public affairs. Euphoria reigned; we
thought for a moment that the world was
plastic and the future unlimited ”
And yet iess than 12 months before
the euphoric hour, the liberal intellectual
world had regarded Kennedy with
suspicion - indeed, hostility. There was
f or instance, his indifferent record on
McCarthyism, which he largely ignored
which he would have found difficult to
°PP ose strongly because of his father’s
“cLt ""!* * * d
Furthermore, Kennedy ‘ was exasperaT-d
with the ideological liberals and what he
regarded as their emotional approach to
the important queSs F na" the e
was the liberal susceptibility to antL
Catholicism the intellectual’s anti
Semitism-and the position of Adti
Stevenson who even after Kennedy^
election, remained the liberal hero
Schlesinger explains this and manv of
the other paradoxes of ti->« u a
career vSh “y e ?L“ V "
not the Kennedy variety) an eve“7n2
sense of Am.rL u-\ ? P 1
f 1 Amenca n history and politics,
The main characters, as well as the less
important ones in the drama, are not left
hanging in some political limbo. They
are given dimensions, faces, clothes,
voices, beliefs and feelings. The unfail-
ing eye for detail picks out the seasons
in Washington, the beauty of the women
at a Kennedy dinner-party on the eve
of a major world crisis, the look or the
faces of Cuban expatriates waiting to
hear what Kennedy would do after the
Bay of Pigs, or the mood of the dinner-
table conversation between the Kennedys
and the Khrushchevs in Vienna.
This means tbat while no one would
be able to justly accuse Schlesinger of
popularising history or lacking in scholar-
ship, he is sometimes guilty of imposing
his own sense of drama on events. There
is no doubt that Schlesinger depicts the
Kennedy Administration as the Sons of
Light fighting a war against the Sons of
Darkness the entrenched interests in
the State Department, the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, and other departments of
Government reluctant to accept the New
Frontier. Nor is there any doubt as to
his own deep personal commitment to
Kennedy which sometimes leads him into
an extravagance of superlatives to
account for the Kennedy appeal. But
these are minor flaws in a monumental
work. Unfortunately, while nearly 1000
pages make endlessly absorbing reading,
Schlesinger’s concise exposition of so
many major events does not make for
easy selection of comment or criticism
in a review.
On all these events, from the Cuba
confrontation to the Civil Rights revolu-
tion subjects, Schlesinger sheds new
light. He is not just rewriting the
cuttings from “The New York Times”
but presenting an “insider’s” view of how
policies were shaped, how decisions were
made, and who helped Kennedy to make
them.
There are difficulties in the Schlesinger
approach. For some of his views he
gives little or no corroborating evidence.
And the ardent seeker of footnotes will
be disappointed there are only half-a-
dozen in 1000 pages. (In his foreword,
Schlesinger claims that every statement
“has its warrant” and that a fully foot-
noted manuscript will be deposited under
seal in the Kennedy Library to be open
to scholars after an appropriate interval.)
To the general reader, however, as
distinct from the scholar, Schlesinger’s
achievement will be measured by what
he tells us about Kennedy himself not
only what sort of a President he was but
what sort of a man he was and became.
Measured by this yardstick, the book
is deeply satisfying. It punctures some
of the Kennedy myths and gives new in-
sight into the developments of Kennedy’s
character and politics. As Schlesinger
sees him, Kennedy was at home in the
Poem In December
The days walked over,
their long gowns plucking
at motionless fingers
and although my hands, lifted
sometimes sheltered my sight
as I clutched ai a conception
of what may have been, perhaps
a day’s life
I know, today I know;
I can sense my deathlessness.
The moments in which I am content
are those which are not sought for;
the sharp, sour musk of mid-morning
is life, aibeit rotting,
and I find _n the dusk’s
positivity
a comfort, a ridiculous comfort.
On this boat
there is ; iuch time to think.
Wild, dappled spots
stream out in the wake
like petals thrown behind me.
I wish it were not so.
ROSS DONLON


New Issue Now On Sale!
NEW GUINEA
and Australia, the Pacific and South-East Asia
sth Issue Contents Include:
New Guinea’s Doctors John Gunther
A Town Like Hagen Ann Byrnes
The British Solomons Bernard Schaffer
The White Cassowary David Fenbury
$2 per annum (50 cents per copy)
At your Bookstall, or from the distributing Agents:
THE SYDNEY & MELBOURNE PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.
29 Alberta Street, Sydney (Box 1813, G.P.0.)
Antiquax Quality Furniture Polish
The top quality British furniture polish with the international reputation is now
available at leading Australian antique, retail and furniture stores. Look for the
BLUE TIN
Enquiries: 389 New South Head Road, Double Bay 36 3567
world of ideas (although not a towering
intellect) but intensely sceptical of many
intellectuals, a supreme ironist in his
wit and speech with the irony derived
from his own experience of physical pain
and his sense of history.
(Throughout his political life he read
poetry and fiction only rarely; the so-
called “special interest” in the James
Bond books was merely a publicity' gag.
Kennedy read mainly for information
and seldom for distraction; epigrams and
quotations delighted him, and history,
especially British and American history,
fascinated him. His view of life was
Greek the hero must pit himself
against the gods and, while knowing how
futile the fight may be, must press on to
the end.
Schlesinger also writes freshly of the
well-known aspects of the Kennedy per-
sonality, his youth, his vitality, his
modernity. In politics this meant re-
jection of the cliches of both the Left
and the Right.
In a country where every second
person is under 25 and where half of
those have had some tertiary education,
Kennedy’s politics of modernity have left
their mark.
Auden’s Quest
By VIVIAN SMITH
About the House. W. H. Auden. Faber.
$2.25.
Tlne of Auden’s major concerns has
■ been the Eden Quest, the search
for the Good Place. This theme finds its
most direct and accomplished expression
in poems like “The Prophets”, which
date from the time when he was being
so fruitfully influenced by Rilke. Now,
with “About the House”, it looks as if
Auden is settling into the Good Place
itself; that it is to be his permanent
residence. Certainly there is a note of
contentment and busy happiness in many
of these poems rare enough in modern
poetry to be welcomed on that account
alone but bringing with it signs of
new beginnings and renewals, as well as
a sense of continuities and developments.
This is one of Auden’s most frankly
“autobiographical” books, with its refer-
ences to his own “little Anglo-American/
musico-literary set” and to himself on the
lecture circuit as visiting poet and pro-
fessor in America or returning to Iceland
after 28 years.
Auden takes as his epigraph the verses
from “Psalms,” “The lines are fallen unto
me in pleasant places; yea, I have a
goodly heritage”, and the series of poems
which opens the whole collection,
“Thanksgiving for a Habitat”, is in fact
just that poems in praise of the house
in Kirchstetten in lower Austria where
he now lives. Beginning with a Prologue,
“The Birth of Architecture”, in the dis-
cursive, polysyllabic, relaxed style of
what we can now call his later phase,
the sequence explores the different rooms
in his house from cellar to attic in tones
of gravity and gaiety and joyful self-
contentment:
I, a transplant
from overseas, at last am dominant
over three acres and a blooming
conurbation of country lives,
and later he says
what 1 dared not hope or fight for
is, in my ’fifties, mine, a toft-and croft
where 1 needn’t, ever, be at home to
those I am not at home with . . .
The manner of the later Auden
urbane, baroque hardly lends itself
to quotation since whole poems are
frequently articulated on little more than
four or five complex sentences which
thread together, or rather, are, a multi-
plicity of considerations and associations.
Auden handles his references with the
ease of a virtuoso juggler and what he
juggles are not only references, ideas and
images, but tones as well. He can still
shock the over-solemn by schoolboyish
references to the “creepy-crawlies” and
enjoy a giggle at the horrid things and
talk about “Tum-Tum’s reign”; it is no
accident that Auden is a Firbank fan.
But it is unfair to isolate such words
in their context they take on a different
tone again. No quotation could do justice
to that dense and brilliant poem “Whit-
Sunday in Kirchstetten”, though the
following lines give one a fair idea of the
movement of the whole:
In the onion-tower overhead
bells clash at the Elevation, calling
on Austria to change: whether the world
has improved
is doubtful, but we believe it could
and the divine Tiberius didn’t. Rejoice,
the bells
cry to me.
Baroque virtuosity seems to be char-
acteristic of the late phases of most
“long-lived” writers; but no single style
has even been complete with Auden, who
remains on the threshold of his ’sixties
as varied, as experimental, as restlessly
innovating as ever. If Brecht and Rilke
dominated much of his work in the
’thirties, the spirit of Horace now reigns
over the musee imaginaire of much of
his later work.
Apart from the Baroque poems, a set
of five translations and some scattered
occasional verse, the rest of “About the
House” consists of a remarkable set of
haikus.
The adoption or revival of the
haiku has been merely one of the many
interesting literary developments since the
war, and it is not unlikely that Auden’s
recent preoccupation with the form was
set off by his translation of Dag Ham-
marskjold’s “Markings”. It is not a par-
ticularly rich form, but its bareness is in
striking contrast to the long, involved
and intricate shapes of poems like
“Hammerfest”. “Iceland Revisited” shows
its full capacity and builds up into an
autobiographical whole notable for its


m
Write
your
way to
success!
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( } Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( } Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott’s step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
ADDRESS
AGE
I understand that no sales representative will
call on me. 5 ' 666
freshness and vivid particularity Perhaps
the best haikus occur in the postscripts
to the very moving elegy to Louis Mac-
Neice:
Only tuneless birds,
Inarticulate warriors,
Need bright plumage.
Striking, too, is the quatrain:
Lost on a fogbound spit of sand
In shoes that pinched me, close at hand
I heard the plash of Charon’s oar,
Who ferries no one to a nappy shore
which is likely to remind one of the best
of Graves’ recent work.
It is typical of Auden that this book
should contain some poems that are
formally so elaborate and others so de-
manding in their brevity and simplicity.
While the critics go on arguing about the
forms, Auden goes on happily using all
that are at his disposal. He has said him-
self. “There are many houses on Parn-
assus”. And, one might add, of all shapes
and sizes.
Is New Guinea Beyond Us?
By IAN MAC PH EE
The New Guinea Villager. C. D. Rowley.
Cheshire. $5.
llUith a disconcerting realism Mr
Rowley, for 13 years principal of
the Australian School of Pacific Adminis-
tration, sees self-determination for Papua-
New Guinea “within a few years”—
and adds that “the internal facts of Aus-
tralian New Guinea are such that orderly
control by a New Guinea Government
and Administration within a period of
time likely to correspond with the de-
mands made upon Australia, is doubtful
indeed.”
He sees our policies and practice as
similar to those of other colonial powers
(once they entered on the task of de-
velopment rather than mere exploita-
tion) and believes that the reactions of
the people in New Guinea may be
broadly similar to those of the people
in Africa and Asia. There is no reason
to assume that New Guineans are grate-
ful to us for forcing “civilisation” upon
them, and we are not justified in feeling
that our way of life or Government is
in any way suited to their needs. The
task of “development” in New Guinea
involves profound economic, political and
social change, and the author, in out-
lining this change, raises the question
rarely posed: is the task beyond us?
Will the administrative “Territory of
Papua-New Guinea” prove to be a short-
lived accident of history?
The author’s basic aim is to view the
effect of Australian rule on the villager,
and to study his reaction. Most villages
are small and compact, and, despite occa-
sional kinship ties, maintain themselves,
in social isolation, cut off from others
by barriers of suspicion, by warfare and
especially by fear of sorcery. Austra-
lians in contact with such villages take
for granted the strong belief in sorcery
which results in dozens of killings
each year. Even movement in a vil-
lager’s own garden is dangerous. Women
and children are often the victims
of “pay back” killings. In the
past, in fact, “a New Guinea slave in
the new world of Arafura and the
Indies, if his master was reasonable,
might well have found a security un-
known in his own village, and have lived
in peace with more of his fellows than he
could ever have met at home”.
The author’s analysis of the contract
labor scheme and its effect on the coun-
try’s progress, the outlook of the vil-
lager, and his relations with the white
man is most enlightening. The villagers
now need cash (once they saw no point
in working for cash), but if they can
earn it by means other than working
for the white man, they turn their backs
on the contract system. Many vil-
lagers’ strongest impressions of the
white man are not those arising from
contact with patrol officers or mission-
aries, but those gained in the labor line
on a plantation, where exploitation and
harsh treatment were not unknown, and
human dignity unheard of except where
the employer was particularly far-
sighted. And “the cumulative effect of
village memories could prove politically
decisive, although villages aren’t likely
to provide the sophisticated leadership
necessary for ‘national’ political action.
Such leaders are more likely to appear
in the plural society of the towns.” The
warning appears several times in this
book that we must not construe village
reticence for love. If anti-colonialists
can reach an effective leader, what hap-
pened in Africa can easily happen in
New Guinea; “to deny that something
like this can happen in Australian New
Guinea is a myopic optimism indeed”.
The Succubus
Spring, the time of evasion such as
Ferns that part like hair beyond the
Double-bunking climbers’ hut.
Branches of pungas opening as if
The rock of ideas would split
At any moment and bring us
.Home to the arms of the great nurse
Half outside time: fingers gripping
The surprises of the flesh,
Labia or shoulderbone . . .
But those who have drunk the potion,
Not yet all turned to stone,
In some cold cafe or a library
Suffer the autumn of the succubus:
Her gliding walk, entering a room,
Her hair that sprouted in the tomb
Or mummy ease. They wait for
The fiery gift, exile from self,
Upstairs at dawn, cutting the party’s
throat,
Quoting thin proverbs to the dark
As the gin runs out, and one
Who trembles watching her, remembering
how
A blacksmith at that cloven anvil
Toiled once and woke unfit for other
work.
JAMES K. BAXTER


WRITING IN
THE SIXTIES
Fires Across the Tasman
By MAURICE SHADBOLT
Ten years ago the best New Zealand
writing was to be found in verse
and perhaps the short story. But the
balance has lately been redressed. In the
last three years volumes of verse have
been falling from the presses like leaves
in autumn. At least two Hone Tu-
whare’s “No Ordinary Sun” and R. A.
K. Mason’s “Collected Poems” have
been modest best-sellers. Denis Glover
and Allen Curnow have also published
collected verse. Alistair Campbell has
joined Curnow and James K. Baxter
under the OUP imprint, and Oxford is
shortly to release its third volume of
selected Baxter. But New Zealand pub-
lishers naturally still account for the bulk
of the titles. In the past two years at
least a dozen poets have made first ap-
pearances. And more established figures
Charles Brasch, Louis Johnson, Keith
Sinclair, Charles Doyle, Kendrick
Smithyman have contributed new
volumes.
All this may suggest some kind of
golden age for New Zealand letters. Has
publishing, in any country at any time in
history, ever been easier? It would cer-
tainly be easy to argue that it is far less
difficult for a young New Zealander (in
a country with 2i million population) to
see himself in print than for a young
American, Englishman or Australian.
Even some books of stories, usually
poison to publishers, have sold rather
well.
It is still difficult to fix on a satisfac-
tory explanation. An increase in New
Zealand readership, an upsurge in
national consciousness? If so, the up-
surge hasn’t been very apparent in other
directions. A boom in New Zealand pub-
lishing? True, but mainly in non-fiction;
most fiction comes from English pub-
lishing houses, though it may sometimes
share a New Zealand imprint (with the
NZ publisher distributing rather than
publishing). One might suggest very ten-
tatively that craftsmanship, along with
increasing variety, has at last produced
the native audience which New Zealand
writers once seemed to despair of finding.
Maurice Gee, whose prose achieves a
remarkable tension, is perhaps the most
successful of the new writers in examin-
ing the underside of New Zealand life,
its small-town and suburban frustrations.
He was docketed mistakenly as a social
realist with his first novel, “The Big
Season” (1962), and grievously misread
as such; his second book, “A Special
Flower” (1965), confirms that his in-
terests are entirely different. Informed by
what often appears to be a truly tragic
vision of human affairs, his stories and
novels partly because of a certain
resonance of observation, an almost
casual accuracy in fixing the detail of the
physical lives of New Zealanders have
an underground reputation, among
writers and readers rather than reviewers
and critics.
The largest slice of new territory,
however, has been claimed by Graham
Billing, in his “Forbush and the Pen-
guins” (1965), an absorbingly written and
almost entirely satisfying narrative of
human isolation in Antarctica. It may
be significant that New Zealand fiction
has extended itself south, into cold, un-
populated wasteland, rather than north
to the warm, populated islands of the
Polynesian Pacific.
New Zealand has till now been short
on robust provincial primitives. Barry
Crump, the country’s largest-selling
writer, once seemed likely to fill the bill.
But after “A Good, Keen Man” (1960)
and “Hang On a Minute, Mate” (1961)
his work, apparently dictated by the
This is the third of a series of articles on
contemporary literature to be contributed by
various critics.
commercial necessity of producing a
book a year, has gone into steep decline.
The last six years have seen several
writers publishing again after long
silences. The most spectacular reappear-
ance has been that of Frank Sargeson,
who published little in the 1950 s aside
from his novella “I, For One” (1951).
In the last year he has published three
plays, a volume of collected stories (up
to 1954), and a period picaresque novel,
“Memoirs of a Peon” (1965), along with
several new stories. He has traded his
pioneer use of New Zealand vernacular
for an elaborate, rather Jamesian style;
and in the process of enlarging his liter-
ary vocabulary liberated his very con-
siderable intelligence. Though his new
novel for all its verbal fireworks falls
just short of satisfying, it is possible to
see it, along with his new stories
particularly the marvellously comic “Just
Trespassing, Thanks”, winner of the
1965 Katherine Mansfield award as
the most sophisticated departure in New
Zealand to date.
The writers of the “new wave” of
1957-58 no longer figure quite so
prominently. Though Janet Frame con-
tinues to publish regularly, it is still dif-
ficult to see past her powerful and ex-
citing “Owls Do Cry” (1957); her later
work often seems in the nature of exten-
sive footnotes to that book, particularly
“Faces in the Water” (1961) and “The
Edge of the Alphabet” (1962). Ruth
France and M. K. Joseph each published
interesting second novels at the begin-
ning of the 19605, but have been silent
since. Sylvia Ashton-Warner, apparently
hurt by English and New Zealand
criticism of her second novel, “Incense
to Idols” (1960), now publishes her fic-
tion out of sight of New Zealanders in
the United States.
New Zealand criticism, as displayed
in the journal “Landfall”, has more to
do with boundary-riding than explora-
tion. “Landfall” might at least be found
admirable in its consistency: one after
another the new writers have been
examined cursorily, often crudely, and
found wanting, while the reputations of
the 1930 s generally remain delicately
guarded (often, as it happens, by re-
viewers of the same generation). It may
be some sense of the journal’s remote-
ness from the contemporary scene which
has led Charles Brasch to announce his
abdication of the editorial chair at the
end of this year: Louis Johnson recently
claimed that of some sixteen writers he
questioned in Auckland and Wellington,
only one (himself) subscribed to “Land-
fall” which mightn’t be surprising if
it were not the only journal of its kind
here. The question now is whether any-
thing short of a revolution can save
“Landfall” from its increasing irrele-
vance.
Poetry is shown at its strongest in
James K. Baxter, whose prophetic thun-
der is still unmuted and who still seems
determined to trap the entire experience
of being a New Zealander in verse which
grows ever leaner, tougher and more ad-
mirable.
Among the younger poets, two sharply
contrasting and ideologically divergent
figures, Peter Bland and C. K. Stead,
stand for much more than themselves:
the first a Wellington anti-academic, the
second an Auckland academic. Both
have matured to a large extent in the
shade of the reputations of Louis John-
son and Allen Curnow respectively, yet
both have moved on to themes distinctive
and individual.
But the two most interesting new
presences in New Zealand verse cannot
be allied with any clear movement. Fleur
Adcock in “The Eye of the Hurricane”
(1964) showed a harsh feminine precision
and a quite awe-inspiring self-knowledge.
Her poems might have appeared at any
time, in any place. The same cannot be
said, however, of the Maori poet Hone
Tuwhare, the first of his race to make a
mark in the English language. His first
book, “No Ordinary Sun” (1964), sug-
gests a future for New Zealand writing
more devious than any critic can propose.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
New Policy on the SRDs
GOOD news! But it was not in the nervously confident statement from the new
Treasurer, Mr McMahon, nor in the whopping big release of trading bank
“frozen” funds by the Reserve Bank.
It is that following the Government’s
decision to use the once-inviolate Statu-
tory Reserve Deposits of the trading
banks for other than monetary policy
measures, the way is open for the whole
ridiculous SRD situation to be brought
to its logical conclusion.
By switching $47 million out of the
SRDs into a Farm Development Loan
Fund, the Reserve Bank is now well
and truly committed to the principle,
first set with the Term Loans arrange-
ment, that SRDs should be used as much
as a method of directing capital into
the most important capital-shy sectors
of the economy, as of managing the
flow of money in general.
When Dr Coombs, the governor of the
Reserve Bank, said he was allowing $125
million to flow out of the SRDs by re-
ducing them from 12.8 p.c. of trading
bank deposits to only 10.4 p.c. (the
lowest for many years) he was doing
both less and more than he appeared
to be doing.
He was doing less because such a
large part of that outflow was going
back into the Reserve Bank’s hands for
gradual distribution to farmers and
others in need under the Government’s
capital assistance schemes.
Not only will $47 million of the
SRDs be directly transferred to the new
Farm Development Loan Fund and
existing Term Loan Fund accounts the
trading banks have with the Reserve
Bank, but, in addition, $24 million of
the remainder of the SRD release will
be used by the trading banks to meet
their share of the contribution to these
funds.
So, rather than $125 million coming
straight out into the spending arena on
Tuesday this week in order to soften the
blow of tax payments and balance of pay-
ments problems, it looks as if only
about $54 million will be immediately
doing so, with the rest dribbling out in
long-term form loans as they are granted.
But if the release looks less than it
appeared, the fact that the SRDs have
been used in this way makes it mean far
more. It means that there can be no
sound logical basis for resisting de-
mands that SRDs be used to finance
other vital developmental works in the
private sector, or for re-directing the
flow of credit as the authorities see fit.
It has always been astonishing that up-
ward of $7OO million has been locked
away by the Reserve Bank in the name
of preventing inflation at the same time
as the Federal Government has been
running around trying to get more and
more overseas investment into the
country.
If the Government thinks money that
comes from overseas to develop natural
resources is any less inflationary than
local money doing the same thing, then
it would be fascinating to hear the
reason.
And if the Government has any
reasons at all for thinking that the best
long-term solution to Australia’s need of
funds for development is to hold a great
swag of cash doing nothing in its cellar
while overseas funds come in to do the
same thing, then they ought to be ex-
plained. too.
It is absurd to defend the Govern-
ment’s view in terms of balance of pay-
ments considerations; that it is better to
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: Last week produced import-
ant signs of official, non-violent surveillance of the
economy ... Mr McMahon’s debut statement as
Treasurer sounded a trifle more tentative than many of
his admirers expected, yet he neatly summed up the
Government’s remedial measures, especially for housing.
On consumer spending Mr McMahon gave a reminder
that a slow-down was inevitable “if additional resources
were to be available for defence expansion, for large
developmental activities and for an increase in the
capital facilities for production” ... A not unexpected
release of $125 million from the Statutory Reserve
Deposits will be followed-by further adjustments, “when
appropriate”, to allow trading banks to maintain lend-
ing; of the present release, $47 million go to the Term
Loan Fund and Farm Development Loan Fund . . .
The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation is to
broaden the range of loans it insures . . . New and
increased lending commitments by the trading banks
hit a weekly average of $22.6 million in March, against
$19.1 million in February . . . February retail sales
went up 6.2 p.c. on the corresponding 1965 month to
reach $492.3 million.
For the markets: By way of contrast Aus-
tralian share markets were asked to absorb a series
of quite fortunate blows last week; they responded
happily, giving Friday the biggest daily index rise for
almost a year and putting 6.68 points on the Sydney
index over the week. Naturally Mr McMahon and
Dr Coombs helped by injecting their form of general
encouragement. Yet the market had more cause once
again to dearly love its leader, so it was BHP which
furnished the most specific drive. Perhaps the advance
has been a bit steep, so a measure of reaction might
be expected. However temporary, though, enthusiasm
extended to most other blue-chip stocks and good
industrial second-liners were also sought. Oils, of
course, took their cue from Santos and Woodside, not
forgetting BHP. When oil interest spent itself by
Friday, metals were given attention . . . London met
the Labor election victory with fair aplomb, having
discounted most of it beforehand. Brokers may welcome
the air of political stability, but have already started
to cast an eye on the Budget. Many industrials did
well, although steels were viewed with suspicion . . .
The so-called technical revivals and retreats keep Wall
Street moderately active. President Johnson doesn’t
“want to put the brakes on too fast”; the suspense on
tax increases cannot be held much longer.
For companies: BHP gave no cause for com-
plaint by striking a steady 91 / 6th p.c. dividend
rate on top of a ticklish production situation; interim
and final are the same, thus halting a series of half-
yearly additions since 1962 . . . Oil certainly hasn’t
lacked glamor lately: BHP-Esso’s No. 4 offshore well
showed higher gas flow in final production tests; Santos
had four separate gas flows at Moomba No. 1, while


DEBENTURESTOCK
and
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
up to
m
m
per
annum
Interest paid quarterly
CURRENCIES
Debenture
Stock
Unsecured
Deposit
Notes
SHORT
TERM
3 months
6 months
12 months
61°/
5i%
6i%
71%
LONG
TERM
2 years
4 years
5 years
6-10 years
71%
8%
81%
Bi%
73%
m
HOWTO INVEST
Applications can only be
accepted on the appropriate form
issued with the
Prospectus now available
from
• Any Branch of the National
Bank of Australasia Limited
• Any Stockbroker
• Any Waltons store or office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, G.P.0.,
Sydney
W6O
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
bring in foreign capital than use what
we have locked away in great quantities
here because capital imports will help
the immediate balance of payments crisis.
That is fantasy stuff, which not only
ignores the long-term impact on the
balance of payments as dividends go
out, but also puts a premium on being
a foreigner if you want to invest in
Australia’s development.
This is not to deny that the SRDs
have been a useful monetary weapon,
with the reduction of about $250 million
or one-third in the SRDs in the last year
being dramatic evidence of the measure
of liquidity run-down that these releases
have had to offset. But this does not
deny that this sort of juggling and last
week’s sort of de facto re-direction of
credit cannot both be achieved. And it
can be done without letting so much
money lie idle.
In any event, it can be argued that
the whole principle of maintaining high
SRDs in a developing economy that is
importing capital (in other words going
into heavy debt internationally) is im-
moral —and bad sense.
These SRDs were built up in order to
hold consumption expenditure in check,
or to keep an investment boom in hand,
or to prevent excessive stock build-ups,
or to peg demand for imports; all com-
mendable aims. Now it is clear that
having collected these big sums, the
authorities have the perfect opportunity
to direct them into worthwhile areas
which do not disrupt the economy or
which have useful long-term ends (like
the iron ore developments).
So now we have our Term Loan Fund
and our Farm Development Loan Fund
financed by SRDs, it is clear that other
funds, to finance developments of major
mineral resources, like iron ore (CSR
could do with some cash), pipelines for
oil and gas, oilfield developments, alu-
minium refineries and all sorts of things
should be set up out of SRDs, too.
After all, this money will come in from
abroad otherwise.
This might sound like dreadful social-
ism to those who don’t like any sorts
of direction. But it makes better sense
than the present farce.
NZ Cuts Imports
Ts it establishing a pattern that the New
A Zealand Government has been forced
so soon to invoke the emergency clauses
of the Australian-New Zealand Trade
Agreement? The agreement was ratified
in August, 1965. Perhaps the possible
slicing of some $2O million from Aus-
tralia’s exports (now around $l7O million
a year) may convince the major partner
of the need to suggest closer co-operation
and more frequent discussions between
the two countries.
Effective co-operation at least seems to
have begun with some manufactured
Union-Kern-AOG brought in oil and gas at Kinkabella
No. 1 between Moonie and Alton; Wapet may soon
declare Barrow a commercial fieid . . . Some kinds of
consumption are obviously not on the downgrade:
Woolworths apparently had no trouble in achieving
record sales by a 14 p.c. jump to $314 million, and on
remarkably low margins; soft-drink makers Schweppes
and Tarax both raised their interim dividends, sharing
a mood of high confidence; confectionery manufacturer
Life Savers achieved its higtrest-ever interim profit . , .
Gioom, on the other hand, clings to textilers, though
Yarra Falls did manage to cut back 1964-65’s heavy
loss; Nile Textiles announced some improvement but
postponed the interim dividend; Astor Consolidated
SIR RUPERT CLARKE
Chairman, Schweppes
(Aust.)
R. W MILLER
Chairman R W Miller
(Holdings)
Mills saw lower sales and profits . . . R. W. Miller
sounds cheerful about everything except the Federal
Government’s tanker policy . . . Optimism has even
passed to an agricultural machinery maker: Adelaide’s
David Shearer proposes a l-for-3 par issue to finance
“additional turnover, tooling, plant and buildings” . . .
Melbourne’s Industrial Engineering also plans a l-for-10
par issue after a very good six-month profit rise . . .
Other engineers, Jeffries Industries and Federated In-
dustries, are trading reasonably well . . . Fibre Con-
tainers was forced to cut interim dividend when sales
of “solid” fibre containers dropped badly . . . Common-
wealth Industrial Gases is offering $8 million of
debentures to shareholders . . . Amalgamated Wireless
can appoint a president.


which man
ploughs
most
fields
Wm
*2
0 FARMER 0 BANKER
The farmer . . . but then he will probably be the first to
admit that a banker helped make it possible. Australia’s
competing banks, and the man-on-the-land, have been part-
ners in Australia’s agricultural growth right from the tough,
primitive, pioneering days until today when our farming
methods are equal to the world’s best. Where you see pro-
gress-chances are it’s backed by a bank.
Every Australian benefits from competition between banks.
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
THE NATIONAL • THE C.B.C. • THE ES. & A.
THE ADELAIDE • THE A.N.Z. • THE WALES • THE C.B.A.
® sill! 1 f jin —mi H
Rll OB
goods. Only last week Australia’s
Minister for Trade, Mr McEwen, was
able to indicate that the pulp and paper
industry, the main industry embraced by
the agreement, was “the furthest ad-
vanced on the joint working-out of the
partnership principle in the commercial
world.”
New Zealand’s announced import cuts
for the 1966-67 financial year will
chiefly affect Australian exports of cars,
raw materials (metals principally), plant
and machinery, and to a lesser extent
consumer goods. The restrictions are
made in accord with that section of the
agreement permitting its signatories to
deal with any balance-of-payments dif-
ficulties by operating on imports.
These difficulties plagued New Zea-
land badly last year and showed little
sign of lifting without drastic action. In
the half-year to December, 1965, the
NZ banking system’s overseas reserves
fell back £29.1 million to £51.3 mil-
lion, in spite of a £31.1 million capital
inflow. Total imports, at £193.5 million,
jumped £27.3 million ahead of the cor-
responding 1964 period.
The NZ Institute for Economic Re-
search believes the full trade deficit for
1965-66 could reach close to £65 mil-
lion. Certainly export earnings have been
high as a result of increased primary pro-
duction. But an overheated internal ec-
onomy, already checked by reduced bank
lendings, has had to be further dealt with
by import restrictions.
Case for Compromise?
fF>oo much is being made of the tenta-
tive suggestion of the Victorian
Government’s natural gas adviser, Dr
Charles Hetherington, that private enter-
prise could handle the new discoveries
and their reticulation. There is no
doubt that it could. There is also no
doubt that the Victorian Government
knows the political danger involved in
giving the fields to private capital, especi-
ally if overseas money is used.
Sir Henry Bolte has encouraged dis-
cussions of the prospects for private
capital without pointing out that Dr
Hetherington is his technical and not
financial adviser. Sir Henry is preparing
a strong case for the June Loan Council
meeting—a case which will indicate the
political as well as the financial aspects
of the Government’s task of develop-
ment. A background of lively con-
troversy will not harm his claims.
The Melbourne Trades Hall Council
has already played its part by unani-
mously deciding to take “political and
industrial” action to stop private money
getting at the new resources. The ALP
and Country Party have gestured in suit-
able horror at the same prospect.
The Victorian problem is that, of the
$ll6 million required to develop the


Absolute Security
for every investor!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
k°?o
For 10 or 15 Years
st<7o
For 7 Years
Principal and Half-Yearly Interest
Payments are Unconditionally Guaranteed
by the N.S.W. Government
Cash Applications may be
made in full or by instalments;
10% deposit on application, and
the balance by 30th June, 1966.
Conversion Opportunity.
Holders of securities in Loan No.
63 maturing Ist May,
1966, are invited to convert to
the new Loan.
Taxation Concessions. The
Loan is an approved security for
Trustees of Pension and Super-
annuation Funds entitled to
qualify for Taxation Concessions.
Trustee Security. An Author-
ised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
Invest or Convert Today at
any office of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of
New South Wales; Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; English, Scottish and
Australian Bank Limited; Rural
Bank of New South Wales;
through your Stockbroker; or at
the Board’s offices.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members ol The Stock Exchange o/ Melbourne
29.759
Gippsland field, $BO million is needed
in the first two years. The Loan Council
is sure to be subjected to strong claims
from other States if it agrees to meet all
or most of this Victorian requirement.
Some partnership of public and private
finance is therefore almost inevitable
and this could extend to the Govern-
ment - owned Gas and Fuel Corporation;
such a compromise will be attacked
politically but may be the only feasible
solution to the problem of raising the
initial two years’ capital.
The other problem for Victoria will
be getting enough pipeline to complete
reticulation as money becomes available.
Unless work on pipe construction begins
soon, delays are likely to hinder
development.
Not All Bounce
Shareholders in rubber plantations
should not start doing handsprings
over the recent exciting-sounding news
from London’s Rubber Trade Associa-
tion.
The association stated that the increase
in the use of radial-ply tyres in the UK
and Europe was a “significant develop-
ment” for the natural rubber trade'' as
“this tyre uses more natural rubber and
of a higher grade than other tyres”.
The natural rubber boys were also
enthusiastic at the overall reversal in
the trend in US consumption from
natural rubber to synthetic. And in
a sadly meaningless statement added,
“So far it has never been proved that, if
natural rubber of any particular grade
is in plentiful supply and is as cheap as
its counterpart in synthetic rubber,
natural rubber would not be preferred.”
Australian tyre-makers discount the
London rubber men’s enthusiasm. They
say that, because the quality and price
of synthetic rubber is easier to control,
it will continue to dominate the industry
and that the radial tyre trend will not
bring great benefits to natural rubber,
anyway. They add that world consump-
tion of rubber in 1965 was 2im. tons
of natural rubber, and 3m. tons of syn-
thetic. To anyone other than the Rubber
Trade Association there is no evident
reversal of the 20-year trend to syn-
thetics.
Radial-ply tyres have a longer tread
life and give slightly improved miles per
gallon than standard tyres. So far, Dun-
lop and Olympic are the only local
makers of radial tyres, but Goodyear is
tooling up. Radials have, as yet, a com-
paratively small proportion of the total
tyre market, even including Michelin
and Pirelli imported radial-plys.
Natural rubber has its greatest appli-
cation in Australia in truck tyres,
because of its superior heat resistance.


...AWAY FROM TOBACCO
To find out what lies behind British Tobacco’s
massive expansion into the food and soft drink busi-
ness, JOHN GIBBS talked to the management of
Associated Products and Distribution Pty Ltd, the
51 per cent oivned subsidiary through which all this
diversification is taking place, and which lost about
$400,000 last year.
This year, APD is expected to get out of the
red, which will mean that British Tobacco’s profits
(noiv overwhelmingly dependent on tobacco despite
its moves into food and drink, printing and container-
making) stand to benefit by at least $200,000.
After that, the prospects are for APD to make
increasingly significant contributions to the group*s
profits as its investments in grazing, meat processing,
poultry, frozen foods, soft drinks, hard and soft ice
cream, nuts, Twisties, potato chips, seafoods and
other “convenience foods" begin to realise their im-
mense potential.
TlThen Rothmans and the anti-smoking
"" campaign yapped at the heels of
British Tobacco Co. (Australia) Ltd as
far back as 1955, the old dog soon realis-
ed it wasn’t the fleas that were biting.
The large bone of the Australian market
chewed peacefully since 1904 (and earli-
er) by British Tobacco was really in
jeopardy.
Came 1961 and shareholders’ dividend
slipped from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c. British
Tobacco, which had already diversified
into printing and packaging, branched
out into a new field by the formation of
Naroo Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd in New
South Wales.
Since then the taste has been for
sweeter things like soft drinks, ice cream,
potato crisps and, more recently, frozen
vegetables, fish, poultry, meat, nuts
all grouped under the control of a Can-
berra-registered company called Asso-
ciated Products and Distribution Pty
Ltd (known in the trade as APD).
How has British Tobacco’s venture
into soft drinks, snack foods and frozen
foods paid off? The fact that APD lost
so heavily last year is no guide. Two
of its operations the soft ice cream
and pastoral companies together lost
almost $1 million last year, and this is
not likely to be repeated this year,
although Dairy Frost is still the group’s
“most difficult problem” and will make
another loss this year following last year’s
huge deficit of $736,538. Drought cost
the pastoral division a loss of $205,158.
But these figures indicate that APD’s
other operations together earned almost
$600,000 profit in 1964-65 despite the
fact that so many of them were owned
for only a small part of the year. When
their full 12 months’ profits are included
this year, the company is confident that
this alone should bring APD out of the
red and even put it some way into
the black.
The real answer probably won’t be
known for some time. In soft drinks pro-
fitability has already been demonstrated,
whereas in frozen foods and snack
foods there are still tremendous growth
prospects which will require further
capital to enable the APD companies
fully to exploit their market potential.
The pattern which emerges is this: British
Tobacco’s vast resources are providing
a tremendous impetus for the diversifi-
cation into frozen foods and soft drinks.
And the biggest growth potential evident-
ly is in the frozen food business. Ironic-
ally, all this is happening at a time when
it is doing better then ever from tobacco.
The British Tobacco group has regain-
ed some of the cigarette market lost to
competitors and its W. D. & H. O. Wills
subsidiary earned $6.6 million out of the
group’s $6.7m. profit last year. It also
has benefited by expansion in the print-
ing and packaging business. Increased
sales in 1965 enabled the group to lift
its earning rate to 18 p.c., the fourth
successive increase since the drop to 9.7
p.c. in 1961.
It also did poorly in some of its food
projects, so the profit potential in the
food and pastoral groups is projected into
the future. The food venture is no minor
affair. The APD group is a $26 million
enterprise, of which the pastoral division
represents about $6 million. Approxi-
mately $l2 million is subscribed capital
and the balance is in loan moneys.
British Tobacco holds about 51 p.c. of
the- capital and British-American about
47i p.c., with some “private persons”
holding the rest.
APD’s position in the soft drink busi-
ness must now rank as the largest in
Australia. This division encompasses
Shelleys and Mynor in New South Wales,
Marchants and Coca-Cola Bottlers (Mel-
bourne) in Victoria, Helidon Gardner and
Passiona (Brisbane) in Queensland, Coca-
Cola Bottlers (Perth) and Golden West
Aerated Waters in Western Australia.
Critics have pointed to a couple of
boo-boos made by British Tobacco in
its diversification and are asking if the
tobacco-trained boys at Raleigh Park,
Kensington, have the ability to guide the
new enterprises. Bill Bengtsson (advertis-
ing director) and Colin Noble (managing
director of APD) answered this last week
by pointing out that management had
been retained in the companies taken
over by British Tobacco. Examples are:
• Jack Shelley, managing director of
Shelleys Drinks.
• At Mynor, Austin Quinlan is still
general manager.
• At Thomas Playfair Pty Ltd, Sydney
meat packers, David Playfair remains
as managing director and Ross Play-
fair as director.
• Mr R. J. Hamer, chairman of General
Foods. He also is the Minister for
Local Government in Victoria. Merv.
Henderson, managing director of Gen-
eral Foods.
•Jim Lowe, secretary of Marchants, is
now general manager.
• Chris. Thomas, managing director,
and John Moore, marketing director,
Coca-Cola Bottlers (Melbourne).
• Kurt Kahn is still managing director
of Frozo Food, Victoria (frozen veget-
ables, and ice cream, etc.).
• At Sou-West Frozen Foods, in which
a 50 p.c. interest is held, Frank
James remains ' chairman and Jack
Savage remains managing director.
• J. G. “Gerv.” Joyce and Brian
Sweeney, joint managing directors of
Helidon Gardner, Brisbane.
• Tony Samson, chairman of Coca-Cola
Bottlers, Perth; also Ken Dickson,
managing director.
• In Diamond Foods, WA (meat and
poultry), Hunt Lindsay remains chair-
man and, with Don Blaxell, joint
managing director.
British Tobacco directors do not deny
there have been losses, but apart from
the Dairy Frost problems, these have
mainly been due to bad luck with
seasonal conditions. A typical example
occurred after Mynor was purchased.
This company marketed Panda potato
chips, which were supplied to a limited
market, such as tuck shops. With an eye
to national expansion in potato chips,
APD brought out Sun Valley chips in
Sydney and, through General Foods, in
Melbourne. New machinery was purchas-
ed, contracts written with potato growers
and a big advertising campaign set in
motion. Then, bingo! The potato crop
failed in Victoria and it was necessary to
buy potatoes on the market for as high
as £lOO a ton.
In addition to potato chips, General


Foods, Victoria (now wholly owned),
markets Frozen French Fry Potatoes
and, with its competitor Petersville sup-
plies the major requirements of this
product to Australian consumers. Again,
the potato crop failure and high prices
affected this operation. In this and the
chip field things are now much brighter,
with supplies of potatoes, under con-
tract, coming forward at more reasonable
pric£S ; ,
Although APD also lost money on the
Dairy Frost company, engaged in selling
soft ice cream, it is not deterred from
pressing on in this market. It has a
stake in hard ice cream through Froze
and it has also acquired almost a 30 p.c.
interest in Toppa, the Victorian com-
pany.
Encouraging the APD group in the
belief that a big future still exists for
expansion into frozen foods is the start-
ling growth in the frozen peas industry in
the past two years, where production has
jumped from 35 m. lb. to nearly 60 m.
lb. It is claimed that demand still out-
strips supply.
APD’s biggest operation is the bever-
age division, followed by frozen foods,
the pastoral division and snack foods.
However, a big capital investment is still
required in frozen foods and the company
expects to supply additional funds to
boost the activities of companies in the
group.
The soft drink companies are operat-
ing at satisfactory profit levels and have
shown growth in profits since joining
British Tobacco. However, a steady in-
crease in profits is expected in the soft
drink market (in line with population
growth) where, after a spate of takeovers,
the company obviously is well establish-
ed.
What is British Tobacco’s policy for
APD?
Bill Bengtsson says: “Our job has
been to select subsidiaries and pur-
chase them with the idea of main-
taining the same management. We use
the resources of British Tobacco to
expand. We support the existing manage-
ment not only by providing finance but
placing at its disposal the British Tobacco
resources such as technical skills, engi-
neering, scientific laboratories, legal, ad-
vertising, production, finance and costing.
“For example, we bought Diamond
Foods in WA, engaged in the poultry
and meat exporting business. The com-
pany urgently needed a new meat floor.
We supplied the money to capitalise on
rapid growth. Marchants needed a new
bottling floor and we provided the money
for this purpose to make the company
more efficient.
“We see frozen foods as the major
development. Soft drinks and snack
foods could grow steadily because we
are already strongly established here and
the growth rate will not be as sharp,
Profits from pastoral interests will run
third to the other two ”
The fu) | board of ApD is . T j N
Fo i e y (chairman), active in the move for
diversification; J. F. R. Lawes (deputy
chairman); Colin B. Noble (managing)-
j im P . Kemp (executive); W S Bengts-
son (advertising); R. H Star (finance)-
G A . Preston (technical); Harry Widdup
(managing director of W D and H O
wi]ls); G . Raw linson (British-American
Tobacco Co. representative).
New competitors, such as Pepsi-Cola,
are reported to be interested in the ob-
vious potential of the Australian snack
foods market. Pepsi, following its merger
] ast y ear w j tb America’s largest manu-
facturer of snack .foods, Frito-Lay Inc.,
has extended into Mexico, Germany and
the UK with Frito-Lay potato-chips, corn
chips and other snack foods,
If new competitors appear, they may
find it a difficult task to match the
remarkably wide distribution outlets al-
ready established by the APD group.
WHAT NEXT?
If we read Mr Foley aright, British
Tobacco will this year curb its appetite
for acquisitions without retiring com-
pletely from the takeover market.
The mood seems to be one of con-
solidation, with scope for the odd
takeover to patch holes in the frame-
work of non-tobacco interests built
up over the past couple of years.
One such gap appears to lie in the
soft-drink network. A bout of take-
overs, culminating in the recent ac-
quisition of Coca-Cola in Melbourne,
has taken British Tobacco into all
mainland States but South Australia.
It’s at least food for thought. South
Australia’s three major soft drink
manufacturers include two on the
public lists, Geo. Hall & Sons Ltd and
American Bottlers Ltd, and the pri-
vately owned W. AVoodroofe Pty Ltd.
Both Halls and Woodroofes are well
entrenched, with product names for
years part of the local household
lexicon, and (pre-Coke) virtually syno-
nymous with soft drink. Television
advertising for both companies has
on occasion drawn on faded photo-
graphs of early horse-drawn delivery
vehicles and be-whiskered founders.
American Bottlers has none of this
folksy appeal. It was formed in 1959
to distribute Pepsi-Cola, and associated
lines, in South Australia. It has been
chiefly notable for a string of losses,
the absence of dividends since a 2i
per cent distribution in its first year
on the list, and a financial rescue
operation by Pepsi International in
1962. Ironically Marchants, since
fallen prey to British Tobacco, made
a bid for the company in 1961, but
withdrew after the breakdown of
franchise negotiations with Pepsi.
American Bottlers’ dismal earnings
record hardly commends it as a take-
over proposition. British Tobacco has
already moved out of Pepsi in Queens-
land in order to get Coke in Melbourne
and Perth.
Woodroofe’s has all the theoretical
appeal of a well-run, well-established
company in this field yet it would
surprise to see it succumb to wooing
from any quarter. Which leaves Geo.
Hall whose performance since
going public in 1961 has fallen far
short of the promise of the former
110-year-old family company.
Hall’s stumbling block was a new
share issue, made shortly after achiev-
ing public status, to finance an am-
bitious expansion and modernisation
programme. Plagued by a succession
of bad and indifferent summers, the
company has not been able adequately
to employ the expensive new capacity
nor achieve earnings commensurate
with the increased capital. Given bet-
ter drinking weather in its early sum-
mers on the list, the story might well
have been different. British Tobacco’s
sources could well remedy this sort
of situation.
This factor, taken with Hall's est-
ablished manufacturing, product, and
distribution strength (it has good rep-
resentation outside Adelaide), makes
it the most likely of the three to
receive a call from the übiquitous
APD.


Toyota Lite Stout
is the tough 1-ton truck
you’ve been looking for
to replace that
'passenger-car’ utility:
\
i S U ,s_
/Z
a
[KjrtSiSC* WWMSfiw
***** jmMJ*!**
Now get your money's worth with TOYOTA Lite
Stout genuine one ton utility with a real truck
chassis plus the kind of rugged toughness that
no other manufacturer has been able to match:
TOYOTA TOUGHNESS.
COMFORT: EASY HANDLING
Great comfort for three in the big panoramic
view cab. Lite Stout sports a column gear shift and
other passenger car niceties like light steering
and easy handling but underneath there’s a real
truck chassis. It’s all toughness and no “beg-
pardons.”
MUSCLE : PULLING POWER : 28 M.P.G.
74 horsepower gives you lots of muscle to pull
the big loads easily and a rugged 4-speed truck
gearbox to match it. You’ll get up to 28 miles
to the gallon because there’s no wasted power.
SIMPLE: EASY TO SERVICE : RELIABLE
Lite Stout has the incredible reliability that
comes from simple, no-nonsense design. It’s
built to sound, tried and proven ideas. When
you lift the bonnet you see nothing you haven’t
seen before. It’s easier to work on and service
than any vehicle you've known.
BEST YET FOR SPECIAL BODIES
You’re seeing them everywhere! With Lite
Stout’s extra load carrying ability and truck
chassis, it’s the most popular basic unit for
special bodies for many a long day. This tough
one-tonner is being converted to every known
delivery van use for bread, dry cleaning,
removing, department stores, carriers you
name it some have even been used for
refrigerated vans. Flat top model is especially
good for conversion to. covered milk delivery
trucks.
Pictured here is the Lite Stout all-steel utility.
There’s also a standard drop-side wooden tray
and a flat top wooden tray up to 50 square feet
of carrying space!
SERVICE : SALES : PARTS :
Lite Stout is backed by an efficient network of
dealers throughout Australia. Look for
this authorised Sales & Service Sign—
it's your guarantee of the service and
parts that have helped to make Toyota
famous.
SALES &
SERVICE
Go TOYOTA and get your money's worth!
LSPC.FPB


why not
lease it?
Leasing means new machinery to-
day. Leasing means modern equip-
ment without capital outlay. Leas-
ing can mean a lot to you. Write for
our free booklet, “Lease Plan”.
Learn all about the advantages of
leasing from our years of experience.
GENERAL
CREDITS
LIMITED
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
210 Alinga Street, Canberra. Ph.: 4 4231
Branch offices throughout Australia.
6850 C
COMMODITIES
The Rival Copper Prices
A return to London Metal Exchange?
Tl/f OUNTING world pressure to do away with the “producer” price of copper and
to revert entirely to London Metal Exchange prices (now at their highest level
ever) has serious implications for Australian copper miners.
All but a small proportion of Aus-
tralian copper is sold at the agreed “pro-
ducer” price, which does not move with
anything like the violence of the London
Metal Exchange and which assures pro-
ducers that, if they hold their prices
steady while LME prices are soaring,
there will be long-run benefits in keeping
customers happy far outweighing the
short-term market losses.
There has been continued opposition
to the producer price from those con-
sumers who do not benefit from it. But
according to a strong rumor circulating
in New York metals circles last week,
Chile may abandon the producer price
and sell all metal at the free market level.
If a major producer pulled out, the pro-
ducer price system could collapse. At
around £stg7oo a ton on the LME, cop-
per is at its highest ever. It is also more
than twice the £336 a ton level at which
Chile is selling its export metal.
The producer price was set up in
March, 1964, after the failure of market
operations which had held LME prices
(on which producer contracts were then
based) at £stg234 for several years. Since
then, free-market prices have risen
strongly, while the producer price has
also been lifted, but not so fast or so far.
The situation is further confused by
the US Government’s insistence on a
price of 36 US cents a lb. on metal
mined and sold in that country, against
an equivalent world producer price of
42 cents. UK fabricators are unable to
compete in world markets with US goods
on this basis, quite apart from the com-
petitive disadvantage suffered by fabric-
ators who have- to buy on the LME.
A director of Enfield Rolling Mills of
the UK recently said that the producers’
scheme had been “a bold and noble ef-
fort’' but that consumers were finding
life harder and harder as supplies at the
producer price became inadequate. They
were becoming interested in a return
to LME pricing for all supplies, he said.
Another voice in support of abandon-
ing the fixed price comes from a London
metal broker admittedly not a disin-
terested party. Philipp and Lyon said in
a clients’ circular, “Dual pricing is going
to come under increasing and, we believe,
unbearable pressure during the next
twelve months” Many consumers were
coming to this view, the broker said. A
return to LME pricing, or a sharp lift
in the producer level, would cause a
sharp fall in free market quotes, pre-
sumably to a weighted average of the
present LME and producer level, the
circular added.
However, a representative of Zambia’s
leading miner, the Rhoan Selection Trust,
said that the notion of reverting to LME
pricing was “out”, because harmfully
high prices would result.
Whether producers return to the free
market or not, copper prices will be high
for some time, and copper mining com-
panies will be making fat profits at
least those not troubled by strikes. But
in the long run, the copper boom seems
inevitably to be riding for a fall.
The anarchy in copper markets has
been in strong contrast to the placid
aluminium scene. This metal has made
considerable gains in places where copper
was formerly used.
There seems little likelihood of any
early solution of these labor problems.
The Chilean Government’s troubles,
which are bringing this pressure on pro-
ducer price, spring from the same source
as the copper industry’s—Chile’s political
and economic turmoil. The miners’
unions are backed in their hostility to the
US-owned mine operators by the poli-
tical opponents of the present governing
party.
Chile’s economic difficulties are hinted
at by management’s offer and the
miners refusal of a 30 per cent pay
increase in settlement of the most recent
dispute at Kennecott Copper Corpora-
tion’s El Teniente mine. Although this
particular disagreement has now been
settled, further strike action seems most
likely.
The effects on Chile and its economy
of the loss of a large proportion of its
export income are considerable. In 1965
a general strike during November cut
output virtually to nothing. In the Janu-
ary-November period output fell from
559,612 tons in 1964 to 529,727 tons,
while costs in Chile rose strongly. For
the first three months of 1966 the El
Teniente mine (second largest in Chile)
was closed and other mines were affected
for various periods.
Zambia, the other main exporter, is
in a similar situation, with the unions
recently stepping-up pressure. Zambia’s
economy is already strained by the Rho-
desian sanctions campaign.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
NEW ISSUE
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
FIRSTSERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
All interest payable quarterly. Applications accepted only on the form
referred to in and attached to the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. AT ANY OF ITS BRANCHES
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
JOINT UNDERWRITERS:
A. B. S. White & Co., 82 Pitt St., Sydney; Pring Dean & Co., 20 O’Connell St.,
Sydney (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited).
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LIMITED
316 Pitt St., Sydney. Tel. 61-9701
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
Trustee for Unsecured Noteholders: P.T. Limited.
*
Vl.
MA229NSW
MARKET POINTERS
Profitable Price Cutting
By JASON
r’ may only be a coincidence, but the
two soft drink companies that last
week reported higher profits and increas-
ed dividends are both doing the “contract
canning” that is creating such a furore
in the soft drink trade and the retail
grocery business,
Tarax makes the Woolworths brand
“Zing” that undercuts other Tarax pro-
ducts by a considerable amount, and
Schweppes makes “Cragmont”, the brand
line of the Safeway group of grocery
stores.
Other contract canners are Coffees,
who make “Embassy” for G. J. Coles
(and who have been in the midst of
takeover rumors), and Coca-Cola Bottlers
(Perth) who supply “Tom the Cheap”
brand —but only from its general soft
drink range, not its Coca-Cola operation.
Contract canning is an extension of
the “brand name” merchandising of big
retail stores into soft drinks. The manu-
facturers make the drink under the label
of the retailer (the maker’s name does not
appear on the can) and the volume buy-
ing and lack of distribution costs means
that the maker can sell it for less and
still make a good profit, so the retailer
can profitably undercut his small shop
rivals, who are selling the maker’s own
branded products.
The soft drink maker that stands to
gain most from this is he who makes
up a retailer’s line that does not com-
pete with his own brand —and which
grabs a bit of the market it would not
otherwise have been able to get without
great promotional expenditure. The
merit of this approach in the case of
Schweppes is striking; Schweppes has a
quality image (and price) so that the
cheaper lines it supplies to Safeway stores
would never be considered competition
for Schweppes in a month of gin-and-
tonic-less Sundays. Similarly, Melbourne’s
Tarax can hit harder at Shelleys in Syd-
ney, where Woolworths is strongest, far
cheaper through contract canning than
through normal channels.
At present this contract canning is
only small cheese in relation to total
industry sales, but it is clearly growing
in importance in an industry where every
little edge over a competitor really
counts. It is limited to canned soft
drinks, ostensibly because the big chain
grocery stores refuse to handle bottles
of their own soft-drink through fear of
the breakages and inconvenience of stor-
age. But it seems more likely that the
manufacturers would not want to be in-
volved in this sort of trade if it meant
they had to get different-looking bottles
for anonymity’s sake and solve the “re-
turns” problem.
The contract canning done by British
Tobacco’s Perth Coca-Cola Bottlers sub-
sidiary raises the question of the attitudes,
if any, of the British Tobacco group to
contract canning. Shelleys, the really
big boy in the British Tobacco stable,
plans later this year to become the sixth
soft drink maker to put in a canning
line, but whether Shelleys will so will-
ingly compete with its own dominance
of the cheaper end of the soft drink
business in NSW is another matter.
In any event, these developments in
contract canning have not really under-
mined the relative stability that has im-
proved this industry’s investment image


mm
St i
r ,
Look at the difference...
TRAINING PROGRAM
SUPERANNUATION
GROUP INSURANCE
HOME ADDRESSES
HOLIDAYS
JOB ASSIGNMENTS
BENEFICIARY FORMS
PERSONNEL
DATA
Dymo makes
With a DYMO Tapewriter anyone can make legible, permanent raisei
letter, self-sticking plastic labels in any one of 10 distinctive colours.
Your DYMO becomes an integral part of the identification and
organisation of files, equipment, shelves and containers; has
1001 uses for identifying property, office doors, cupboards.
Just dial the letters and squeeze the handle. It’s as
simple as that. There’s a complete range of DYMO
Tapewriters for commercial, professional and
industrial use. DYMO Tapewriters make low
cost labels that permanently adhere to any
smooth surface.
DYMO
THE COMPLETE
LABELLING AND
IDENTIFICATION
SYSTEM
Kijapf::.
There's a Dymo
Tapewriter for every
application including
embossing on metal tapes.
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR USUAL STATIONERY SUPPLIER OR OFFICE SUPPLY COMPANY
JA J
(and prospects) so much in recent
months.
Schweppes last week reported a 10
per cent profit rise for the first half of
the year, and it can expect its sales to
continue high to the end of the year,
since it depends far more on the “mixers”
market with spirits (it even puts out
ready mixed drinks in cans in conjunc-
tion with Sydney wine and spirit merch-
ants Douglas Lamb) than do the other
companies. It has been showing a lot
of managerial enterprise in recent times
(following a change at the top) with
very large-sized bottles and canning being
part of its aggressive approach.
Schweppes is without doubt the doyen
of the industry. It is remarkable that
the market, which thought this stock was
worth over 2 dollars last year, now con-
siders its worth only $1.65 despite its con-
tinued one per cent, one per cent, one per
cent onward yearly lift in dividend, in-
dicated again for the current year in the
recent interim report. It deserves an
even lower dividend yield than 3.3 per
cent; in the stockmarket, as in soft drinks,
it pays to buy quality.
Probably one of the best buys in the
soft drink business is the Victorian coun-
try group, Cohn Brothers, which derives
most of its income from its holding of
Carlton and United Brewery shares, but
which also has a substantial chain of
soft drink manufacturing units in Victor-
ian country centres and an interest in a
country Coca-Cola bottler. The soft
drink contribution to Cohn’s profits this
year should be far greater than last year’s
$34,000 out of a total of $176,000.
At $1.65 after the current one-for-five
bonus issue the stock still looks appeal-
ing, as these shares were as high as $2.20
before the bonus, indicating an ex-bonus
price of $1.83. It should not take too
long before these shares are back at that
level and bouncing along just under the
2 dollars barrier. And it seems reason-
able to speculate whether this company
would not fit fairly well into the British
Tobacco group. It has been one of
British Tobacco’s distributors for quite
some time.
have been a lot of six month
A call options bought in Peko-Walls-
end Investments in recent weeks by some-
one who is putting up a lot of cash that
says the shares will be worth at least
$2.25 by September compared with their
current prices around 2 dollars.
The high price of copper could be
3ne reason for the enthusiasm for Peko;
another could be the Japanese interest
in coal; another could be its new gold
mine, which gives promise of being lit-
erally a gold mine; and another could
be its big stake in rutile. Buying Peko
would be a handy way for some mining-
minded overseas company to get, or in-
crease, a stake in the Australian mineral
industry.


A Cantonese Opera. As unique as Hong Kong itself. A the surrounding hundreds of tiny islands has a total
symbol of the Orient as much as Hong Kong is “hub area of only 398i square miles. Yet in this area abounds
of the Orient.” A complete contrast of sound, colour some of the most breathtaking panoramic views in the
and movement from the serenity of a
sampan riding on quiet waters. But this
is Hong Kong. This is the gateway to
the East, the only city in the world where
East truly meets West, where there is
complete co-existence of the old and the
new. Where the mysticism of the Orient
HONG
KONG
vacation
world. In complete contrast are the busi-
ness areas of Victoria and Kowloon, where
many goods may be purchased at prices
less than in their country of origin. So
for a holiday that’s different, take a
trip to Hong Kong. Take a Hong Kong
vacation. If you’re on business plan your
comes face to face with the reality of ,the West. Hong itinerary so that you can spend some time in Hong Kong,
Kong, including Kowloon, the New Territories, and the place that has everything. You’ll be glad you did.
mm
'■i:
%
■
4
1
p
W:
J
Send this coupon for free literature.
HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION
Anchor House, Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
Please print clearly in black letters
ADDRESS !
Do you require this for a school project? I


CHANGE OF ADDRESS
lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
EMBANK HOUSE
325 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Telephone: 62-0421
SECURITY ANALYSIS
In the Takeover Line
National Bag’s growth since 1960
ITPhe new share list in the Sydney Stock
Exchange Gazette is one of the most
comprehensive lists that have been pub-
lished to date. It now incorporates an
industry classification for each company
on the list, the industry classification
having been taken from the recently
revised groupings for the share price
index. In the main this revision consists
of setting up sub-groups within the main
groupings. One of these sub-groups is
8(b)3, which is Paper, Packaging. I
consider that this grouping adequately
covers the type of company which I have
been writing about in recent weeks and
I find that there are nine companies in
the list with 8(b) 3 after their names.
One of these is Cellulose, which I dis-
cussed under the heading of paper manu-
facturers, and another is United Empire
Box, which I do not intend to include
in this series. Three of the companies
are very lowly priced, at or below par,
and I have excluded them for that reason.
However, I have added National Bag,
although it is not strictly a “fibre con-
tainer” company, because about eighteen
months ago it was the subject of take-
over negotiations with Fibre Containers.
At that time Fibre Containers offered
$1.60 cash, $2.00 in 7 p.c. unsecured
notes repayable not later than October
31, 1970, and three Fibre Containers
shares for every four National Bag
shares. The offer was somewhat compli-
cated by the fact that, out of the cash
consideration, an amount totalling
$600,000 in all was to be subscribed for
shares in a new company which was to
acquire a 5C p.c. interest in certain
assets held by National Bag’s subsidi-
aries. However, ignoring this last con-
sideration and forgetting that interest
rates have risen somewhat (so the notes
would now be below par in all proba-
bility), National Bag shareholders would
have assets worth $7.50 if they had been
given the opportunity and had accepted
the offer instead of the $6.60 which
their four shares in National Bag are
now worth. This is despite the fact that,
in terms of dividends per share, National
Bag shares are still the most highly
priced of the five companies which will
be considered in this particular series.
Paid capital, including £lOO,OOO pre-
ference shares, was £550,000 in 1950 and
today, sixteen years later, it is £777,950,
or, more correctly, $1,555,900. Of the
$455,900 of new equity capital issued,
$150,000 was for acquisitions and
$305,900 was issued to existing share-
holders and noteholders in 1960 in the
one and only rights issue made during the
company’s history as a public listed com-
pany. Use has, however, been made of
fixed interest capital, for $360,000 of
6 p.c. unsecured notes were raised in
1954 (now all repaid) and a further
$400,000 was raised in 1959, the last
of which will be repaid next October 31.
These notes have already been replaced
by an issue of $BOO,OOO 7f p.c. notes
repayable as to $140,000 on May 31,
1971, and as to $660,000 on May 31,
1975.
Jn the last directors’ report, it was stated
that the company tried to finance
its expansion from retained profits in the
main, so it is unlikely that regular rights
issues will be a feature of financial policy.
However, it is pleasing to see that the
dividend rate, which was raised from
10 p.c. to 11 p.c. last year, has been
raised yet again with the recent interim
and a 12 p.c. rate for the year has been
forecast. Furthermore, the company has
“potential bonus” reserves of some
$855,150, equal to 55 p.c. of present
issued capital and which would permit
a bonus issue of up to l-for-2. If such
an issue were made, the dividend pay-
out would increase to about $280,000
if the 12 p.c. dividend rate was main-
tained on the bonus-increased capital.
In actual fact, the rate of growth in
per share dividends has not been very
spectacular since listing in 1951. Divi-
dends per share after adjusting for the
bonus content of the March 1960 cash
issue have increased by 571 p.c. in fif-
teen years, but a full twenty per cent of
the increase has occurred in the last two
years. In the ten years from 1951 to
1961, dividends per share increased at
the rate of 21 p.c. per annum compound,
at the rate of about 31 p.c. for the period
from 1956 to 1965, and at the rate of
10 p.c. over the last two years. Judging
by the current market price, this stock
is now being valued on the basis that
the 10 p.c. growth rate will continue for
the next five years and after that the
rate will return to “normal”, i.e., to
around 3 p.c. per annum.
There is certainly some justification
for this line of thinking, because from
1951 to 1960 (with the exception of
1959) earnings per share on an ad-
justed basis never exceeded 10 cents
and for half of those years did not ex-
ceed 7 cents. Since 1960, and despite a
fairly substantial new issue in March
1960, earnings per share have never been
less than 10 cents and over the last three
years have been 10.5, 13.6 and 16.2
cents a share. This rate of growth is
quite outstanding; from the interim re-
port it seems that the earning rate has
increased yet again.
At the present time, then, the shares
in National Bag can be regarded as
attractive from a number of viewpoints.
First, earnings per share are rising
rapidly, dividends per share are well
covered and increasing also, and finally
there must always be the prospect that
another bid might be made for the
company.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES ($'000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 3318 3308 3730 4040 4395
Current liabilities 1653 2020 2738 2864 2188
Working capital 1660 1288 992 1176 2207
Fixed assets 2483 3038 3504 3704 3563
Investments 20 20 16 17 16
Intangibles 346 346 346 369 369
Total capital 4509 4692 4858 5266 6155
Represented by:—
Loan capital 750 686 682 644 1228
Ordinary capital 1506 1506 1506 1556 1556
Reserves 2253 2500 2660 3066 3371
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES ($'000)
Interest 38 32 32 32 25
Depreciation 173 162 242 320 358
Tax provided 302 220 214 345 391
Earnings 398 396 314 394 486
Ordinary
dividends 150 150 150 155 171
Surplus 248 246 164 239 315
Earning rate % 26.6 26.3 20.8 25.3 31.2
Dividend rate % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 11.0
Dividend yield % (a)
3.6 2.7 2.9 2.4 3.2
High price (b) 1.82 2.12 1.95 2.60 1.98
Low price (b) 0.97 1.65 1.51 1.62 1.45
(a) Based on average of high and low prices for the
calendar year.
(b) Calendar year.


4
FOR
YEARS
OR 6 YEARS
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications-can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from—
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank,
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in N.S.W.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.,
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest & Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
vri
0^
ii
Phones —■
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 31 1861
Perth 21 6273
0
FLY TO SWITZERLAND
VIA THE EAST
SWISSCARE WORLDWIDE
MAN ON THE LAND
Woolcombers’ Private
Buying
Man on the Land replies
WE had hoped that our views on Woolcombers Ltd’s private wool buying plans
iTT (“Bulletin”, Mlarch 19) might have drawn from the managing director, Mr J.
Alan Thompson, some plain answers. His reply (“Bulletin”, April 2) provides some
answers, but not all. Succinctly (as he says himself) he more or less restates what we
already know. \
If his purpose in Australia was merely
to buy wool privately, then we would
have no cause to ask him difficult quest-
ions. His private buying would be his
own business. Private buying has always
existed and the auction system has always
been able to stand this form of com-
petition. In certain circumstances a priv-
ate treaty has some advantages for some
woolgrowers and, provided it is that and
nothing more, it has a place,
Yet for a man who allegedly has no
more than traditional private buying of
wool in mind Mr Thompson has behaved
in a rather strange manner. Instead of
talking to woolgrowers, he has been
talking to those farm organisation leaders
who supported the reserve price plan and
who deny that they were defeated. These
men have made it clear, in no uncertain
terms, that they are going on with the
fight and that a statutory wool market-
ing authority is their ultimate aim.
This is particularly interesting and in-
dicates that those anti-reserve price men,
who stated the ultimate aim was some
form of controlled system, were not
far off the mark. Whether these reserve
price zealots are using Mr Thompson, or
whether Mr Thompson is using them, is
rather beside the point. It is patently
clear that a public relations campaign is
being mounted to convey to the majority
of woolgrowers, who voted against the
reserve price, that private buying is now
going to wreck their auction system.
It will not unless it is some special
form of private buying.
No one is likely to prevent Mr Thomp-
son, or anyone else, buying wool priv-
ately so long as they can convince
growers that they will get a better price
for their wool. It really is a case of pay
up or shut up if it is simply a case of
buying privately.
Whether Mr Thompson knows it or
not (and he may not, of course), what is
in the minds of some farm organisation
leaders is something along the following
lines:
• If reserve price, or statutory authority,
is eventually to be obtained then the
auction system must be undermined.
• To do this woolgrowers will form
themselves into groups, or co-operatives,
and will spll their wool, possibly on some
form of contract, to a manufacturer.
• As the woolgrowers concerned will
be unlikely to go along with this unless
they get better prices (than they would
by selling at auction) it will be the job
of the organisers to persuade the growers,
by all means possible, to go along.
• This will involve public relations,
perhaps some form of subsidy from or-
ganisation funds, or borrowed funds, or
funds from overseas stemming from gov-
ernment subsidy to manufacturers at the
other end.
That, roughly, is what is being tossed
around. Quite frankly, we do not know
whether Mr Thompson is involved in
exact plans or whether, in fact, the plans
exist in precise terms.
But it’s on and, this being the case,
the pity is that the discussion is taking
place behind a PR smokescreen. No plan
is worth anything if it cannot be dis-
cussed openly.
What we think has happened is that
the farm organisation leaders have mis-
read the view of the membership, on this
issue, in exactly the same way as hap-
pened in the reserve price referendum.
They claim to speak for the member-
ship when, in fact, they speak largely


GEELONG C. OF E. GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Wanted in January, 1967
MATHEMATICIAN
to take charge of Matliematics throughout the
School in 1968. Apply to the HEADMASTER,
-ORIO, VICTORIA.
COMMONWEALTH
AUSTRALIA
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE
AND INDUSTRY
DIRECTOR
(several positions)
OFFICE OF SECONDARY INDUSTRY,
SECONDARY INDUSTRY DIVISION.
Salary —Within the range $6518-$6BOB.
Duties —Formulate policy proposals for the
development of Australian manufacturing
industries.
Qualifications —Knowledge of Australian indus-
trial structure and organisation. Experience
in policy formulation. Academic or other
qualifications to be stated.
Inquiries —lnformation regarding appointment
conditions may be obtained from the Common-
wealth Public Service Inspector in all canital
cities.
Applications to —The Secretary,
Department of Trade and
Industry,
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
Applications Close —l4th April, 1966.
COMMONWEALTH
t
OF AUSTRALIA
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY
j Central Staff—Canberra
SENIOR PROJECT OFFICER
A Senior Project Officer is required for the
Office of Secondary Industries, Tariff and Im-
ports Division, Tariff Branch, Tariff Projects
Section, Department of Trade and Industry.
Salary —Within the range $6518-$6BOB.
Duties —Direct and control the work of the
Tariff Projects Section including, research
into the theory and application of the Austra-
lian tariff, analysis and evaluation in relation
to industrial development, and into Australian
tariff policy. Formulate policy proposals and
undertake other duties on matters of economic
analysis.
Qualifications Considerable experience in
economic analysis and research. University
degree in Economics or Commerce preferably
at honors standard.
Inquiries —lnformation regarding appointment
conditions may be obtained from the Common-
wealth Public Service Inspector in all capital
cities.
Applications to —The Secretary,
Department of Trade and
Industry,
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
Applications Close —l4th April, 1966.
for themselves. The speeches of the lead-
ers sound important, in the conference
hall, but go to the country and the fellow
on the property, as like as not, regards a
good deal of it as a joke.
Said one woolgrower to us: “These
blokes usually have too much time and
not enough to do or they want to get
away from Mum for a couple of days”.
The farm organisation men will not
like this, naturally, but the way in which
the referendum vote went, contrary to
leaders’ recommendations, is evidence on
our side. We refer to those organisations
which supported reserve price, not the
opponents. Unless there is some form of
government subsidy, at no cost to the
grower, either from Australia or to the
buyer from some overseas government,
then we cannot see the plan amounting to
much. The auction system may have
faults, as many people are aware,
although it is not as weak as some
planned economy fundamentalists like
to think.
Some of Mr Thompson’s particular
points deserve answers.
He says that Woolcombers has never
been a preferential beneficiary of Inter-
national Wool Secretariat promotion
efforts. He says it. We accept it.
As far as the views of the US and
other overseas manufacturers go, we do
not intend to be drawn. This was thrash-
ed out during the referendum and the
only rationalisation is that the overseas
opinions were framed in an “all things
to all men” manner.
All of this could, naturally, be dis-
missed by Mr Thompson, or anyone else,
as merely opinion, and every man is en-
titled to his own opinion. The wool
grower, given all the facts, is capable of
forming an opinion. What follows, is,
however not opinion and is, we feel,
relevant.
Australian wool exports to the United
Kingdom dropped by more than one
third during the six months of this finan-
cial year. Commonwealth statistics show
that Britain bought 34 per cent less
wool, compared with the same period the
previous year.
Since these statistics were published
the lessening of UK interest has been
very marked. Only about 10 per cent of
wool bought in the most recent series
of sales was destined for the UK.
Mr Thompson’s real argument, we
believe, is more with Mr Wilson than
The Bulletin.


NEW ZEALAND
BROADCASTING CORPORATION
Controller of Television
Programmes
The N.Z.B.C. requires for its Head Office in Wellington
a man who can show:
Wide and responsible experience in broadcasting and
television programme work.
Successful management of television programme and
production services.
An active interest in community affairs, the arts,
education and current events, and an appreciation
of popular entertainment tastes and opinion.
A sound knowledge of the contractual and admini-
strative aspects of programme work.
This officer will be responsible to the Director of Television
for the selection, planning, production and presentation of
all television programmes in New Zealand.
A salary of up to (N.Z.) £2,900 will be paid to the suc-
cessful applicant, depending on qualifications and experience.
Apply in writing, giving full details of qualifications to:
MR. R. BARNES,
N.Z.B.C. Recruitment Officer,
P.O. Box 98,
Wellington.
Applications close at noon on Tuesday, 31st May, 1966.
AGRISEARCH
Education in Agriculture
Pandemonium of jerks and jabs
A few weeks ago in this column it was explained that the
fruits of agricultural research grow most plentifully on
the farms of farmers whose minds have been well tilled and
kept well fertilised. This week, at the risk of wandering
further from the straight paths of technical improvements in
agi Culture, we will look briefly at the agricultural education
programme, because the \ nation’s standard of living leans
heavily upon it. Thus, farmers and graziers still bring in
upward of 80 per cent of the national export income. This
productivity, and the efficiency of its attainment, depends
largely on the individual farmer’s standard of education and
technical know-how. These, in turn, derive from the quantity
and quality of the agricultural research, extension and
teaching services.
The Australian Institute of Agricultural Science has now
published the proceedings of its third national conference,
which was held last August in the Hobart Town Hall. Its
subject was broadly named “Agricultural Education” and the
discussion centred around five main addresses which covered
the entire education scale. Mr J. A. Sutherland, a Senior
Lecturer in Agriculture at the Armadale Teachers’ College,
described the purpose and scope of agricultural education
in the high schools. Dr R. N. Farquhar, a Research Fellow
of the Australian Council for Educational Research, analysed
the performance of our agricultural colleges and university
faculties. Professor G. W. Leeper, of Melbourne University,
dissected the arguments about “generalist-versus-specialist”
training for agricultural scientists. Dr Joan Tully, a Senior
Lecturer at the University of Queensland, outlined the kind
of education that should be offered to agricultural extension
personnel. The fifth speaker, Sir Otto Frankel, a former
member of the CSIRO executive, was concerned with the type
of training available for potential research scientists.
The day-long pow-wow told a doleful tale. Apparently,
agricultural education in this country is merely a pandemonium
of jerks and jabs. No one, it appears, gets from the system
enough of the training he needs, whether he intends to
become a farmer, a scientist, or something in between. In his
own words, Sir Otto, looking out on the mess through the
blinkered eyes of a research leader, would abandon the
existing university faculties of agriculture and replace them
with integrated schools of pure science. He believes that
today’s graduates are not honed nearly finely enough to be
able to cut sufficiently deep into the fabric of life to extract
important new knowledge. Dr Tully, ever hoping to spread
further the new gospel of technology among farmers, be-
wailed the fact that agricultural education almost entirely
ignored the social sciences and so did not provide a basis for
training economists, administrators, etc., let alone farm
advisers. (Professor Leeper, however, supported the status quo
with some straight-fingered pointing to the manifest strides
that agriculture had taken at all levels.
At the other end of the educational scale, Mr Sutherland
pointed out that school agriculture does not generally enjoy
prestige and is accordingly shunned by the pupils and neglected
by the educators. The mortal blow was finally struck by
Dr Farquhar when he revealed that the agricultural colleges,
which were established for the specific purpose of preparing
farmers’ sons for farming, train less than 2 per cent of the
people entering farming.
In short, agricultural education at the top end appears to
be in a quandary and at the bottom end in a predicament,
while the middle is a virtual void. The conflict between
theory and practice is endemic in agriculture.' It is commonly
resolved pragmatically: “My job,” says the farmer, “is to raise
produce economically”. “My job,” says the scientist, “is to
enlarge the fund of knowledge without regard to its useful-
ness.” But this live-and-let-live policy is no solution at all,
The farmers and scientists will continue to move in two
different orbits miles apart. To put them in contact, Dr Joan
Tully would build an elaborate messengerial-advisory service,
This would entail constructing a stout middle in agricultural i
education, i.e., putting some guts into it by providing suitable
training for practically anyone concerned with agriculture
except farmers and research personnel.
However, she mentioned that three studies in different
farming communities in Victoria showed that the mere dis-
semination of information is an effective means of causing
some 16 per cent of the farming population to adopt the
latest thing. This suggests that “educated” farmers can help
themselves and focuses attention on the need to enhance
the amount and quality of education, both general and
vocational, in the schools.
The uneven type of education provided in university
faculties arises from the unsettled question of whether more
pure science or more applied science is needed. If the former
is deemed to be the preferable, albeit more indirect, way
of assisting farming then much more specialisation in training
courses is wanted. If applied science, which simply aims to
provide practical answers to practical problems, is reckoned
to suffice, then the existing training needs much strengthening
in economics and sociology.
The exponents of both of these courses are agreed that a
more important problem to overcome is that of attracting the
“right kind” of students into agricultural science. (Presum-
ably they would claim that farming itself is beset by the
same problem.) At the moment, there is some evidence that
the poorer students enrol for agriculture.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN ARTHUR O’CONNOR. TAKE
NOTICE that LORETTA ANN HELENA
O'CONNOR has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4686 of 1965 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 2nd
day of May, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
petition and notice of petition without charge
from K. H. WILSON & CO., 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Solicitors. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: VINCENT THOMAS PATTERSON, late
of Woy Woy and also 8 Benelong Street, Sea-
forth. New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that
CARMEL LILIAN PATTERSON has filed a
Petition No. 4647 of 1965 for Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of desertion notwith-
standing the facts and circumstances as set
put in a Discretion Statement filed by her
and seeks orders for custody, maintenance
and costs. If you wish to defend or be served
with further process you may file an Answer
or Notice cf Address in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building. Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 4th day of May, 1966, and obtain
ft copy of the Petition without charge from
ROBERT LLOYD & SONS, Solicitors, 8a
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Public Notice
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
MRS PAULETTE ELEANOR KUBIAK
Mho resided at 351 Camp Road, Broadmeadows /
in 1962, please contact
DUDLEY A. TREGENT
i Solicitor
422 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Applications are invited far appointment as
HEADMASTER
BRIGHTON GRAMMAR SCHOOL
(One of the Associated Public Schools of Victoria)
to take up duties at the commencement of
SECOND TERM 1967
Full particulars and conditions of the appointment are available from
THE BURSAR, 90 OUTER CRESCENT, BRIGHTON.
Applications close 31st May, 1966
Enquiries should be marked "Confidential"
AUSTRALIAN VOLUNTEERS ABROAD
Vacancies for teachers, graduates, tradesmen, nurses in Asia, Africa,
New Guinea and Pacific islands.
One and two-year terms. Small allowances, insurance and
fares provided.
Apply now to—
AUSTRALIAN VOLUNTEERS ABROAD
124 Jolimont Road, East Melbourne, Victoria.
(63 8496)
'The Bulletin" Crossword No. 893
ACROSS
, 1—Monsters sat in mixtures. (ID
;6 —He who ensures that there’s rhythm in the row
makes business multiply. (3)
; 7—The figure present. (5-3)
8—Place to put down two sailors. (6)
11— Gun taken back to get Dr H. C. Coombs. (6)
12— Feed in my fleshy first person with a Tyson’s dad.
(5)
15—Suspicious swimmer if back to balk. (5)
17—One may not proceed through this black door when
' adjusted. (4, 5)
18— Yours Truly is to serve as a
go-between at once. (9)
19— Boy who collects rents. (5)
20— Outcry to a back way. (5)
21— Irregular car bid regarding
Welsh singers. (6)
25 Precipitous lair which is
soapy. (6)
26 Tic often affected little bits
of paper. (8)
27 One is expected to put a
match to this aircraft. (3)
28— Fish don’t surrender the
French footballer! (11)
DOWN
1— They’re not present for toast-
ing, but the seaman des-
patched Friday extremities.
(6, 7)
2 The blushworthy subject
advances the venerability of
one parent on the eve of
C-Day. (10)
3 Take her my poetry. (5)
4 Domestic help given to 1000.
(4)
5 Can be begun where the stage
celebrities dine. (9)
6 Wherein one experiences
nothing but a business woman.
(4)
9—Noisy housie players’ version
of 7-across. (8-5)
10—Support a mound for driving
off one of the inheritors. (7)
13—Increase the range of Fra
Port. (7)
14—At a dado not reconstructed
up near “the Centre”. (10)
16—Half toy with the famous
English counter-tenor’s im-
proper name for counter-
tenors? (9)
22 A life is wretched for him.
(5)
23 Opening of mine has pub-
licity on it. (4)
24 We take his courses with
business approval. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 892


BULLETIN
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail—26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/ Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/ Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail
AMERICA
rates on application.)
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY - >
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
| | Renewal. | | New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, f0r......
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
The Forms Previously Studied
A return to Amalgamated Chemicals
T DO not think Leonardo da Vinci was thinking of the stock market when he once
said: “It is of no small benefit on finding oneself in bed in the dark to go over
again in the imagination the main outlines of the forms previously studied, or of
other noteworthy things conceived by ingenious speculation.”
Nevertheless, this saying could well be
applied to our stock market in such
situations as Amalgamated Chemicals.
The share price history of the company
illustrates its volatility. Three months ago
it was selling at 85 cents. One month ago
it had almost doubled to $1.50. Now
it’s back to 85 cents.
Fortunately my interest in this com-
pany is more than academic. With the
term of acceptance fast running out, the
market appears to have become utterly
confused. So much so that, at 85 cents,
it is ignoring altogether the benefits that
should result from Continental becoming
the parent. Fertilisers are often regarded
as the growth industry of tomorrow; it
would be difficult to find another com-
pany in, or about to be in, the fertiliser
industry which shows a current dividend
yield of 6.6 p.c.
Of course, there are arguments against
the share, but at this price they are of
minor consequence. There is a faction
that feels Continental might take its
share of the revenue in the form of
management fees or royalties, rather
than in the form of dividends. Time can
only determine this matter. Then, of
course, there are some brokers around
town whose enthusiasm carried them
away; consequently they now find that
they are the holders of a substantial
number of Amalgamated Chemical shares
which do not qualify for the offer. These
parcels of shares could dampen the
market temporarily.
Giving due weight to all these matters,
I decided to purchase the 500 shares to
cover the Amalgamated Chemicals put
option. As the option still has two months
to run, I’ll let it stand. It may be that I
can squeeze a little more out of the
transaction if I can sell on a sudden
rise and cover again later.
Before turning to new business in the
portfolio, some mention of Mr A. Holst’s
recently published study of “growth
stocks” in the last decade should be
made. Using some hundreds of stocks,
he illustrates that growth stocks of one
five-year period are the non-growth
stocks of the next five-year period. It
also works in the reverse way. So an
astute investor should now be looking at
the likes of L. J. Hooker, Concrete
Industries, Latec Investments, and
Deposit and Investment.
This last company does seem to have
reached its turning point. An immaculate
record up to 1963 (which included con-
tinuous payments of dividends since the
turn of the century) was abruptly inter-
rupted by heavy losses in its traditional
field of operations, namely, loans to small
businesses. In the three years to 1965,
the company managed to chalk up bad
debts totalling $8 million.
At long last, the company is shaking
off the last of its defaulting debtors. In
fact, it was able to report a profit of
$200,000 for the first six months of the
year. Granted, this is still a long way
from the former days of prosperity, but
then the present price of 18 cents is
only one-tenth the 1962 market value.
Buying 1000 shares at this price only
involves, an outlay of $lB5.
Even smaller than this outlay was the
purchase of 100 Tyree at $1.62. Despite
an upward move in last year’s earning
rate of 32 p.c. in the first six months of
the current year, the shares have quite
suddenly fallen back from $l.BO. Putting
it down to market neglect, I managed to
get 100 at $1.62 just after there had
been a sale at $1.60.
The only sale this week was the
Anderson Seed rights at 23c. For the
5c rise in the last week I must thank my
friend in Melbourne. I’m sure he’s right
in the long term, yet my interest is
strictly short term. The transaction
showed a profit of $lO.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 Anderson Seed rts, 23c .... $ll3
BOUGHT
500 Amal. Chemicals, 85c $435
1000 Deposit and Inv., 18c .... $lB4
100 Tyree, $1.62 $166
The account swings into debit with a
final balance of $207.
The portfolio now consists of:
Cost Cur-
No. of Nome of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 $l.lO $l.lO
200 VAM 28/9/65 0.50 0.47
400 Associated Pulp 5/1/66 1.50 1.60
400 B. J. Ball 2/2/66 0.88 0.83
200 Western Mining 9/2/66' 2.60 2.60
400 Riverina TV 13/2/66 0.74 0.75
400 West Titanium ctg 13/2/66 —1.15 1.10
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.72
400 Coal and Allied 24/2/66 1.36 1.36
500 Amal. Chem. put
option 3/3/66 1.35 0.85
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.35
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.12
200 Fowlers Vacola 13/3/66 0.45 0.45
500 Concrete Ind. 24/3/66 0.27 0.29
200 W. R. Carpenter 24/3/66 2.53 2.50
500 Amal. Chem. 29/3/66 0.85 0.85
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.18
100 Tyree 30/3/66 1.62 1.62


(defies imitation)
i
■■
r
MS
I
; ,; V j
: W
*
MILL Rk J
fr/.im sm
S»i f «a>»
S®*i
Si! £
■ I
m*-
Ajl
MIL MM
MILMRA
<V I.XIM -*
Utsi»vi
RSUHT
SPECIAL
BRANDY
RESE RVE
WJIIT
W»RS«*®« WHSB*
AUSTRALIA '
me
MIL! UK' ■;
POT StiH |
mum#* m*s ao waw*
AUSTRALIA .
ra Supreme
ffir s, UL-
A LIGHT DRY STYLE
SPECIAL APPEAL FOR A SUGARfRK
! SPECIALLY SELECTED AUSTRALIAN
NET i PINT 6FL OZ
NO msi BFI CZ
m
All Mildara Brandy is made by the traditional pot-still method. This means that selected white wine is
heated in a copper pot-still, and the vapours are condensed. This liquor (called “brandy feints”) is
distilled a second time and only the “heart of the run” is considered good enough for Mildara Brandy—
other fractions are discarded. The new brandy matures in casks of imported oak for several years to give a
smooth finish and delightful flavour. MILDARA SPECIAL THREE STAR BRANDY is a light style brandy,
excellent in a long drink with water, soda or dry ginger ale—especially with a tinkle of ice. MILDARA SUPREME
BRANDY. Each year the new brandy destined to become Supreme is selected for its richer flavour, then
matured for up to ten years in oak casks, in the cellars beside the Murray, to develop its inimitable style.
MILDARA EXTRA POT-StILL BRANDY is the pride of Mildara’s skilled distillers and blenders, who select the
best original brandies which have won prizes over the years, and mature them for many more years to develop
the magnificent style and bouquet presented in the distinctive label for Pot-Still Brandy. MILDARA TOPAZ
BRANDY is the lightest style of quality Australian brandy with no sugar, and of special interest to those on
a sugar-free diet—a wonderful mixer. MB.S7.FPC
MILDARA The Best Australian Brandy—it makes a host of difference


K-tzm
* I—-r—'1 —-r—'
-
n
—f
i
rim.
.
MM Ml
-4—“ f
■
■
,
I K t <
i «pyi
- - * : ip
ik-1; ’
I. * ~ + i*!
:
w?ym
if A'
it!
■ Ml
*
m
\jrk u k
rrwmJ
lilt
1
fe
M
"“-.il
i*
' '■:• ft:,?.
ROBERT THOM
o Ci'Mimes —one of a series of oil
-
© Davis ex Company.
N
■A
¥
Great Moments in Mec Gone
Galen was a prolific writer, researcher, and diagnos-
tician of the second century. His teachings dominated
Western medical thinking for nearly fifteen hundred
years. Greek-born and educated, this early giant of
medicine migrated to Rome about 161 A.D. He is
shown applying dry cupping, once a popular method
of drawing blood to the surface.
Today’s physician is a highly trained scientist, and
has at his disposal countless medical and surgical
discoveries undreamed of in Galen’s day. When you
place your health in his care, your physician can call
to his aid the latest achievements of almost every
branch of science.
In the best tradition of Galen and others of his
stature, Parke-Davis applies a restless inquisitiveness
to the science of medicine. The results are, and
have been for a century, continuing improvements
in existing medicines; discovery of new ones; devel-
opment of trustworthy methods of manufacture
and testing. Most satisfying of all, the ever-
increasing health and longer life of people all over
the world.
/ 1866 1966 X
100-
ANNIVERSARY.
PARKE-DAVIS
Better Medicines for a Better World
pd l
