

The Bulletin
v
<s^
JULY 2, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
First date at Greengate
By Garry Shead


m
/'
<1
isf
»
ts>
■
jftSßgsvswwract
mm§k&
m
1
.......Ad
i
i
' :
m
:».i’«* su?£svsw
??oe.':cb or rr.AMCE
>V> . ■ • . i f ;• iD Ct'WCB
Hennessy is the Greatest Name in Cognac Because...
for two centuries the Hennessy family through seven
generations have built up the largest and finest reserves of
Cognac in the world. That’s why the standard of
excellence never changes. The high quality is guaranteed.
HENNESSY
BRAS ARME
COGNAC
In this Distinctive Bottle.
N.S.W. Agents: Gollin & Co. Ltd., Harbottle, Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd. All other States: Gollin & Co. Ltd


TRUCKS
TRAXCAVATORS
tIJ
COMPRESSORS
X
CRANES
*
>■*
EXCAVATORS
EXPERIENCED OPERATORS
Hire ah the equipment and the
operators in one package
GO ONE-STOP-SHOPPING
AT BRAMBLES
CIVIL CONTRACTING
DIVISION
Rock Excavations • Earthmoving • Reclamations
• De-watering • Plant hire
CRANE HIRE DIVISION
Crane hire • Concrete pouring • Steel erection
• Machinery moving • Heavy and high lifts
TIPPER TRUCK DIVISION
Hourly hire or contract work • Suppliers of sand,
ashes, metal, gravel and filling
BIS . B
BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CNR. TODMAN AVE. & DOWLING ST., WATERLOO. 663 0465
LETTERS
Dr. Kramer’s Provincialism
Sir,
Leonie Kramer says that the book
“Australia and the Monarchy” is out of
date by London standards, that ten years
after Muggeridge and Lord Altrincham
launched their attacks upon the monarchy
“our polemicists tell us what we have all
heard before.” (8., June 18.)
This is an illuminating untruth. Mug-
geridge and Altrincham did not discuss
the question of Australia’s relation to the
monarchy, yet this is what this book is
mainly about. Dr. Kramer’s mistake is
significant of a wider provincialism: ap-
parently she believes that London discus-
sion on the monarchy in its relation to
English people automatically also settles
the question of Australian discussion on
the monarchy in its relation to the Aus-
tralian people.
I assume that Dr. Kramer read my
contribution to “Australia and the Mon-
archy” very carefully before attacking it.
It is surprising that she did not notice
that I said (as I said in “The Lucky
Country”) that I did not necessarily op-
pose the use of constitutional monarchs as
heads of State in the countries in which
they reside. I am not a “republican,” but
sojneone who thinks that Australia is going
to become a republic and that this, in
Australia’s case, will be a good thing.
What I was concerned with in my “Aus-
tralia and the Monarchy” piece was that
Australia has as its head of State a woman
who lives in London, and there are conse-
quent implications from this in ritual and
belief, habits and attitudes, that I con-
sider to be important, for reasons that I
have given in both “Australia and the
Monarchy” and “The Lucky Country.” If
these reasons are to be examined seriously
they have to be examined in the belief
that what goes for London doesn’t neces-
sarily go for Australia (and also that there
are certain characteristics of how people
in fact go about their affairs that are dif-
ferent from the rules for intellectual de-
bate).
DONALD HORNE.
Double Bay (N.S.W.).
A Country Party Win
Sir,
I wish to draw your attention to an
inaccuracy in Mr. Oxley’s article, “Back
to Stalemate” (8., June 11), in which he
CONTENTS
Dean Rusk 13
One More Week 22
Ross Campbell’s Suburbia 25
Batman 29
Geoffrey Dutton’s Monarchy .. . . 32
Cellarmaster 34
Short Story 35
Arts and Entertainment 36
Books 40
Business and Finance 44
Man on the Land 60
Speculator’s Diary 64


Your
introduction
to the world
of Air-lndia
starts with
a
Wherever in the world you
join an AIR-INDIA jet,
your hostess will greet you with
a namaste (NAH-MAH-STAY). It’s
our way of saying “welcome aboard’’
Just one of the delightful differences
about AIR-INDIA. It implies a
promise that we’ll treat you as an
honoured guest, a promise which
is in every way fulfilled in the
impeccable service, superb
international cuisine, the precision
of our multi-million-mile pilots.
May we suggest that you ask
your travel agent for information
about AIR-INDIA’s international
air routes to 27 cities in
22 countries.
AIR-tNDIA
the airline that treats you like a Maharajah
worldwide
Wr?
a
, i
H ’""Wife
AIR-INDIA flies to Aden, Bahrein, Bangkok, Beirut, Bombay, Cairo, Calcutta, Frankfurt,
Geneva, Hong Kong, Kuwait, London, Madras, Moscow, Nairobi, Nandi, New Delhi, New
York, Paris, Perth, Prague, Rome, Singapore, Sydney, Teheran, Tokyo, Zurich.
with BOAC and Qantas
11918
A175.105.1005c.
states that the seat of Albert, centred on
Southport, was won by the Liberal candi-
date from the sitting CP member in the
recent Queensland State Election. This
was quoted as the only seat in which a
Liberal candidate was successful in defeat-
ing a sitting CP member in a three-
cornered contest.
As a matter of fact, the sitting CP
member for Albert, Mr. C. Carey, was
successful in retaining his seat by the
margin of 49 votes, ALP preferences not-
withstanding. It will be appreciated, there-
fore, that the Liberal Party did not
succeed in any of the electorates in which
it sought to defeat the sitting CP member.
(Mrs.) MARGARET LAVER.
Mudgeeraba (Qld.).
Geelong Grammar’s Tempo
Sir,
We have seen the extract you printed
(8.. June 11) from the magazine “Tempo,”
which we edit. You left out an exclama-
tion mark after the word “Hooray”
important because it indicated that the
comment was ironical.
The poem was accepted on its literary
merits and because it was typical
rhetoric of those who hold that point of
view. Hence the comment which, with
your help, has misfired. The writer, we
believe, sincerely holds the views he
expressed, and we would defend his right
to have them even though they are un-
popular and even if we incur the charge
of belonging to the “radical left” or what-
ever George Orwell might have called it
—a tradition to which your own pre-
decessors once belonged.
The Editorial Board, “Tempo,”
Geelong Grammar School.
Corio (Vic.).
NED KELLY AND THE PRESS
bulletin
85 Years Ago: July 3, 1880.
WE are sorry to have to say that
the newspaper people did not
show to very great advantage
during the closing scene of the Kelly
campaign. The subject was an exciting
one. There were deeply dyed villains,
treacherous “bush telegraphs,” splendid
horses, and a plucky priest. Then there
was the fair sex, represented by Kate
Kelly, bullets were abundant, and the
night was a moonlight one. Yet the
scene brought forth from the reporters
nothing but the dreariest of common-
places. No scribe aired his poetic
powers in heroic metre. There was no
coloring in any of the messages from
the seat of war, unless it was con-
tained in a passing allusion to “the
red ridin’-skirt and Gainsborough hat”
worn by one of the Kelly girls. Even
our admiration for the enterprise of the
“Evening News,” which killed no less
than fifteen people during the san-
guinary day, is toned down when we
come to consider that the dead have
“mostly all” come to life.


instari
The beauty and mood
of old Indonesia greet you
the moment you enter the
modern, air-conditionec
Hotel Indonesia
General Managl
R. Kane Ri
surrounds you with tef
batik, oriental gardens,
balconies, swimming pools
and penthouse supper
club. A stirring combina-
tion! Call your travel agent
or Inter* Continental
for reservations-
by Panamac.
One of 33 incomparable Inter*Continentals around the world.
Inter • Continental’s new Hotel Bali Beach opens late 1966.
Teilhard the Scientist
Sir,
The naivety of James McAuley’s
article on Teilhard de Chardin (June 4)
rather astounds me. For an intelligent
man, as I had always taken James
McAuley to be, to refer to him as a
visionary and not a scientist or theologian
“in any very serious sense” is somewhat
extraordinary.
A biologist, palaeontologist, and anthro-
pologist, Teilhard de Chardin was a com-
petent scientist, and was so recognised in
his day, even by those who did not agree
with him (for example, Lucien Cuenot).
Excluding the minor research expeditions
of Father Teilhard as a young man, he
spent from 1923 until his death in 1955
engaged in active research work. No arm-
chair scientist, he did a great deal more
than “finding a few fossils.” He was of
great importance for the international
scientific links he caused, for his writings
and lectures. Impelled by the search for
truth, he loved science and was a master
at synthesis, clarification, and classification.
But all this was dependent on his many
years of field work. His work in Tientsin
and Peking, on the Croisiere Jaune expedi-
tion and at Choukou-Tien was of great
scientific importance. Like so many scien-
tists who are approaching the end of their
career, he had accumulated the facts he
needed and especially from about 1946 he
handled those facts in such a way as to
synthesise them into a valid philosophical
system.
Finally, his appointments speak for
themselves; a director in the Geological
Laboratory in the Institute of Human
Palaeontology (from 1938); director of re-
search at the National Centre for Scien-
tific Research with rank of officer in the
Legion d’Honneur; a member of the
mineralogical section of the Academie des
Sciences; and a member of the Institut
de France. To these French honors
should be added those of China, England,
and America, and those his religious
superiors would not let him accept.
TIMOTHY CARTER
Lane Cove (N.S.W.)
Sir,
James McAuley is surely right when he
says (8., June 4) that Teilhard de Chardin
belongs in the company of Blake, Smart,
and Shelley even more than in that of
St. Francis and St. John of the Cross.
Indeed, I question whether he should be
classified with the Christian saints at all.
On his performance in “The Phenomenon
of Man,” I should describe him as a
mystagogue who conjures Christian
eschatology out of a neo-Haeckelian hat,
distracting his audience the while with
pseudo-scientific and pseudo-theological
patter. A mystagogue, employing rhap-
sody as he inculcates a monist philosophy
and disdaining logical argument. You
either see the world the way he does or
you are blind.
The main tenets of this philosophy—that
all matter is endowed with consciousness
and becomes more conscious by becoming
more complex are to be found in
Haeckel’s well-known work “The Riddle
of the Universe,” published about seventy
years ago. Christian eschatology can be
got from that system only by intellectual
sleight-of-hand: it is a foreign body, like
the rabbit in the conjurer’s hat. The
scientists • Medawar and others have
dealt severely with his pseudo-scientific
patter.
G. H. DUGGAN, S.M.
Greenmeadows (N.Z.).
Author , Author
Sir,
In the paragraph “Author, Author'’
(8., June 11) you comment that “The
Mitchell, in Sydney, feels it has most
of what it wants and says it has little
interest in manuscripts until the author
is dead.” This reflects accurately enough
our general attitude in the Mitchell
Library toward recent literary manu-
scripts, to the extent that we do not sup-
port the payment of large sums of money
for the manuscripts of authors who are
still living and who, in the event, may
not prove to be of any special significance.
Our collection of literary manuscripts is
large and representative, ranging from
David Burn and Charles Harpur to Mary
Gilmore and Hal Porter, with most of
the major Australian literary figures in
between.
Unfortunately, the very limited funds
available to the Trustees have to be ap-
plied not only to literary manuscripts but
to those of historical, political, economic,
and scientific importance, and to printed
books as well. While this is not intended
to be a soliciting letter, I should like to
make it known that the Mitchell Library
is and always has been interested in ac-
quiring Australian literary manuscripts of
importance, but not at exorbitant prices.
G. D. RICHARDSON.
Principal Librarian, Mitchell Librarian.
The Public Library of N.S.W.
Sydney (N.S.W.).
A Soldier’s Wife
Sir,
As an army wife living in Malaysia,
whilst my husband is serving in Borneo,
I would like to thank THE BULLETIN
for its articles on and attitudes to the
Australian serviceman. We here are facing
up to five months of separation from our
husbands. Those whose husbands have
gone to Vietnam have a much longer and
more worrying time to face.
It is comforting to know that at least
some of our fellow' Australians are
appreciative of what is being done by our
servicemen. It would be far easier for us
to remain in static and safe places where
our children could attend the same schools
and live contented, stable, family lives. But
our husbands have chosen to serve, and
we follow willingly. Shaw wrote that men
with the least consciences and respon-
sibility make the best soldiers. Thank
goodness this is not so today.
(MRS.)
D. S. THOMSON.
G.P.O. Malacca, Malaysia.


one in a series of case histories of Goodyear reliability in industry ...
WE WAITED
•i
TO BRING YOU THIS STORY
a
m
. ...
CASE HISTORY 1
In 1951, that’s 15 years ago, a set of
six Goodyear ClO5 multi V-belts was
installed to drive the No. 8 Circular
Saw at a large firm of Sydney Timber
Merchants, Vanderfield & Reid Ltd.
Operating at 950 R.P.M. from a 35
H.P. motor, the V-belts drive from
an BVi O.D. pulley to one 13% O.D.
The saw operates, on the average, 6
hours a day, 5 days a week. That
means that these Goodyear V-belts
have worked about 22,500 hours over
15 years. So that’s a long time. So
they’re Goodyear belts. They’re made
to take it.
With reliable performance like this,
it’s no wonder that this firm insists on
all Goodyear rubber products.
CASE HISTORY 2
At the North Melbourne Bedford St.
plant of Metropolitan Refrigerated
Services Pty. Limited, Goodyear Green
Seal V-belts are giving maximum
trouble-free hours at minimum cost.
Eleven D 270 Goodyear Green Seal
V-belts have been operating in the
freezer and stores side of the plant
for 10 years. The compressor is an
80 ton twin cylinder 11 in. x 11 in.
Werner. It works approximately 112
hours every week of the year.
Six D 240 Goodyear Green Seal belts
drive a 7 in. x 7 in. Werner compres-
sor, while three Wilac twin cylinder 70
compressors are each fitted with twelve
D 270 Goodyear Green Seal belts.
Both the Werner and Wilac compres-
sors are fully automatic and the belts
fitted to them are exposed to a con-
siderable amount of wear and tear. Yet
in their 4 years’ service since installa-
tion, the drives have given no trouble
at all. They have, in fact, many years
of service left.
It’s this type of reliable service that
makes Goodyear V-belts synonymous
with high quality engineering know-
how.
When you want extra driving force at
the lowest drive cost, contact your
Goodyear technical man at the Good-
year branch in your State.
GOODYEAR
CSOOB


Face of the Week
A round of SEATO conferences be-
gan in Federal Parliament House, Can-
berra, with an ANZUS round to follow.
Security mounted a strong guard. At
Mosman in Sydney, Mr. Calwell left
an anti-Vietnam meeting and was fired
at inside his car, but received minor
injury. A youth was charged with in-
tent to murder and granted bail on a
$2000 surety. An explosive caused
.$10,000 damage to Ciro’s, in Melbourne,
and former boxer Steve Nittes was
charged. The Commonwealth faced
two writs in the N.T., one from a man
claiming ownership of part of the
Stuart Highway, another from Cooli-
bah Station’s owners claiming a survey
had wrongly shown their boundaries.
The Papua-New Guinea Administration
offered indigenous Public Servants a
salary rise, unspecified. The “Good
Samaritan” who returned Malaysian
High Commissioner Tun Lim Yew Hock
to his home remained unidentified.
★
A force of 18,500 men and women
began delivering forms for the June
30 Census. Sydney Opera House
architect Peter Hall left on a 12-week
study tour overseas. The Victorian
Public Service Association called on the
State for more police. The CSIRO
was asked to investigate a kerosine taste
in Queensland mullet.
★
The Australian Bank Officers’
Association conference in Brisbane de-
cided to hold Australia-wide stoppages
if 30 percent margins increases were not
granted in “a reasonable time.” Tas-
mania is considering legislation for
breathalyser tests and blood alcohol
tests. IPEC entered the air freight
business legally with a consignment of
bananas from Brisbane to Cowra in
N.S.W., using a chartered Bristol
freighter, and shipping by road from
Cowra to Melbourne.
★
All States’ Attorney - Generals and
Mines Ministers met in Melbourne to
discuss offshore oil royalties and rights
with the Commonwealth. S.A. opened
its pre-Budget session of Parliament,
outlining Bills for a Government Insur-
ance Office, State Lottery, TAB system,
the abolition of capital and corporal
punishment, ending racial discrimin-
ation. Australia’s watersiders were
moving toward possible permanent
employment, with a weekly wage and
pension scheme. A Queensland Council
for Civil Liberties was formed. The
Elizabethan Theatre Trust proposed
that the Commonwealth give part of its
functions to a Council of the Perform-
ing Arts.
★
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, f>4-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne — Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4504
JULY 2, 1968
The Mosman Shooting
SINCE we are all sickened and
horrified by the shooting of Mr.
Arthur Calwell, it is all the more
important to avoid hysteria in the
necessary discussions about tightening
up the security provided for public
figures. The case is sub judice and
cannot be commented on, but already
there have been attempts to draw a
political moral from the horrible
episode: some have claimed that the
leftist anti-Vietnam demonstrations
have stimulated an atmosphere of
lawlessness which encourages assassins
and that the demonstrations should
be more strictly policed a variant
of the American leftist argument when
a sort of Communist killed President
Kennedy: the right-wing extremists
had encouraged violence, it was said,
so they must be strictly suppressed.
Others, mainly leftists, have equally
quickly claimed the shooting is evi-
dence of the depths of anti-Labor
Party plotting; and the Communists
promptly called for a public inves-
tigation and exposure of “the political
forces behind the gunman.”
Both claims are equally absurd.
However offensive to nearly all
Australians the anti-Vietnam demon-
strations may have been, they have
been on the whole scrupulously law-
abiding only outdone in this
respect by the calm response of most
emotionally committed Government
supporters. The debate has been
passionate but in no way conducive
to violence, and the Mosman shoot-
ing would be no justification for
tighter control of any of the main
types of political action in Australia.
Others, without directly grinding
any political axes, have claimed, as a
simple matter of principle, that
security must be tremendously
tightened immediately. Obviously
there must be some tightening up,
and there will be general agreement
with the Commonwealth police claim
that the Prime Minister and Opposi-
tion leader should be provided with
a bodyguard even if only because no
society can ever be free from maniacs.
But apart from that, the Prime
Minister struck the right note in his
speech at the Wagga convention of
the Liberal Party when he stated
that, whatever is done, there is no
case for police restriction of ordinary
political life.
The Australian experience in recent
years is in this respect reassuring. We
have received over a million and a
half migrants, many from countries
with tragic and blood-soaked histories;
we are involved in a war which more
directly involves our basic interest than
any other war except the war against
Japan; we have sent Australian con-
scripts to fight and suffer casualties
overseas; we have an affluent youth
that is better able to participate in pol-
itical demonstrations than were previ-
ous generations and, as Mr. Holt said,
is freely exercising its right to do so;
and we live in a world marked by
insane violence and instability. And
what has happened in Australia, until
last week’s shooting? A few demon-
strations, a girl pouring red paint on
herself to symbolise blood, and some-
body chaining himself to a gate at a
naval base . . .
In other words, despite all the
stresses, the record justifies maintain-
ing the tradition of open controversy,
of lawful demonstration, of public
rallies all with the necessary but
minimum police restraint. The horri-
fying shooting at Mosman will righdy
encourage better security but justifies
neither purges nor panics.


THIS AUSTRALIA
ARTHUR CALWELL
The Assassination Attempt
ONCE the immediate shock passed, and the relief that he was not seriously hurt, was
there one person, of any or no politics, whose imagination did not relive the agony
of that dreadful day in November, 1963? The day on which an assassin’s bullets
cut down President John F. Kennedy.
And, along with the welling-up of sym-
pathy and concern for Arthur Calwell
went a sense of shock at the gruesome
parody of recent history mirrored in last
week’s horrible events.
Kennedy was handsome, successful, both
young and mature, alid at the height of
his political powers; a Western knight
in shining armor; a hero among his
people, their allies, and some of their
enemies. He was murdered by a foe who
planned the death with a madman’s zeal
and fired his shots with amazing skill.
The grotesqueness of the parody of the
death of Kennedy witnessed in Australia
last week is only too evident: •an old
man’s chin lacerated and whiskers singed
by a would-be assassin firing from point-
biank range. The pointlessness, the
absurdity of the act is much more striking
than fatuous announcements that “the
days of it can’t happen here are over.”
From the days when O’Farrell’s bullet
struck the Duke of Edinburgh in Clontarf,
near Mosman, in 1868, it could always
have happened here. Madmen and
men of violent affections and hatreds are
killing people every day. Sometimes their
diseased minds become obsessed by public
men, and very occasionally they plan to
do them injury. There is no evidence that
the shooting represents a new spirit of
anarchy and violence entering Australian
politics, whether it be from the right, left,
or centre. Those who at this moment are
using the injury done to the Leader of the
Federal Opposition to prove that it has
ought to stop before they disgrace them-
selves and their political causes further.
However, now that we can all genuinely
celebrate the fact that Mr. Calwell is
alive and well, there is no cause to con-
demn the intense speculation now being
conducted in the Victorian Labor Party
on the effect of the would-be assassin’s
bullet on the Party’s electoral prospects
later this year.
One thing is certain: the wave of sym-
pathy which all Australians feel for Mr.
Calwell after his narrow escape from
death or severe injury has extended to the
Press and news media and will persist
there for some time.
Mr. Calwell had been receiving a poor
and declining Press reception for some
months: almost all papers were editori-
ally opposed to his remaining leader of the
Labor Party, and his criticism of the Press
for misreporting him over a statement
which it subsequently appeared he did
make reduced his relations with the fourth
estate to an even lower level than when
he was concerned with the Gamboa case
as Minister for Immigration. Many papers
took his strong criticism as a declaration
of open warfare and they were not reluc-
tant to respond to the challenge.
The major dailies have now indicated
that they are prepared to grant a truce
and if Mr. Calwell takes advantage of
this the armistice could with luck extend
at least to election time.
In addition, there is bound to be a
general feeling in the community that
some of Mr. Calwell’s more extreme
remarks of recent months, about being
misreported, about America, Asian stu-
dents, Government motives in foreign
policy, and the end of Communism in
Europe, should be forgotten and buried.
To an extent the public sympathy for him
will act as a factor for his rehabilitation
in public opinion.
There had been before last week a
general tendency, even in some Labor and
Left-wing organs, to treat Mr. Calwell as
a slightly pathetic and ridiculous figure on
the national stage: this tendency will go
underground for a while.
Whether the ALP can hope for much
more is another question. There is no
strong reason to think that sympathy
extended to him as a man will spill over
into sympathy for him as a candidate for
the Prime Ministership. The sympathy vote
is not one which is rated as very signifi-
cant by political commentators. There is
no known case of public sympathy bringing
a man political power.
The hope has been expressed by some
Victorian Left - wingers that the major
effect of the attempt on Mr. Calwell’s life
will be to indicate that there is a danger-
ous Right-wing element in Australia, a
violent and fascist or potentially fascist
extreme, which must be crushed by an
electoral swing to the ALP.
The trouble with this hope, irrespec-
tive of whether it is based on a true
description of Australian political life,
is that it fails to take into account the
fact that the Liberal Party is not and
cannot be identified in the public mind
with extreme Right-wing ideology. Harold
Holt bears no resemblance to Mussolini
or Franco, and his Party these days does
not even have a laissez-faire image.
The further political consideration, un-
kind as it may seem, is that the exten-
sive publicity given to Mr. Calwell over
the last week will only tend to reinforce
the impressions of those voters who regard
him as old, out-of-touch, a generation
behind, etc. The Press and television
coverage of that old, strong, craggy visage
may raise its possessor to the status of a
patriarch, but it is unlikely to identify him
as a winning national leader. Harold
may not look very dignified in his bathing
trunks and snorkel, but that old hat of
Arthur’s, which appeared in picture after
picture, and that ancient, if ruggedly
grand, face are not the kind of image
which a nation closer to the year 2000
than to the depression is likely to find
compelling.


NEW SOUTH WALES
The Milkmen Cometh
Free samples of North Coast milk in Sydney Verdict: “100 percent better.”
A GROUP of dairyfarming interests known as the North Coast Development Party
has been formed in New South Wales and is talking loudly about running
candidates against the endorsed Country Party men at the next State elections.
This is only one of the embarrassments the Askin Coalition Government has had to
face since the State’s current milk problems began.
For more than a decade the dairymen
of New South Wales’ North Coast have
looked enviously on the population ex-
pansion in the Sydney-Newcastle-Wollon-
gong areas and sought ways of selling their
milk there.
Under the former Labor Government,
which decreed that only farmers within an
area bounded by Port Macquarie in the
north, Milton in the south, and Orange
in the west could have access to the metro-
politan markets, there appeared no hope.
But with the change of government a
political ground swell has developed that
has provided a major headache for the
Askin-Cutler coalition.
The Country Party, which holds all five
seats in the North Coast “outer” area,
expressed its “understanding” of the
dairymen’s problems and promised to help
them when it came to government. What
was inferred and stated by parliamentari-
ans in Opposition to promote local inter-
ests, has in government, caused a conflict
with virtually the rest of the State.
To bring the North Coast dairymen in
would almost certainly adversely affect
the marginal producer inside the zone
without providing a complete solution for
his northern counterpart. Introduction of
the Milk Zone by Labor brought orderly
production and distribution where pre-
viously there had been alternatively
rationing and over-production. Dairy-
farmers inside the zone receive 4/4 a
gallon for their quota, while those outside
are paid varying prices, though invariably
less than half that of the zone farmer.
For Labor the system worked well. It
had no representation on the North Coast
(except Lismore briefly) and no real pros-
pect of breaking into such a solid Country
Party area.
But for the Lib.-CP Government, pres-
sure from the North Coast began as soon
as it took office. At first even a price in-
quiry into milk prices inside the zone was
refused, for such an inquiry would only
further heighten the difference between
those inside the zone and those outside.
But with the by-election for Oxley (based
on Taree, inside the zone) in November
the Government promised the prices
inquiry as electoral bait.
From the moment the inquiry was
announced, the North Coast dairymen be-
gan agitating for access to the zone
market. Government endorsement of an
increase from 10c to 11c a pint has
sparked the present crisis where the
North Coast producers are preparing to
illegally bring milk to Sydney at lc a
pint cheaper than the Milk Board price.
The Government hopefully has sought to
extricate itself by offering a subsidy to
the North Coast producers totalling $1.3
million a year. But the flat rejection of
this proposal coupled with the “invasion”
threat has presented a delicate problem
for the Government.
EDUCATION
Incident at Illawarra
ACCORDING to the New South Wales Public Service Board a schoolteacher is
first and finally a public servant saddled with the restrictions and fine print of
public service regulations. For teachers, apparently, there are no exemptions or
excuses.
This rigid interpretation came to light
recently when two South Coast teachers,
acting as representatives of the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation, wrote to a Wol-
longong paper pointing out accommodation
shortcomings at their schools. For their
action they were reprimanded by the area
controller of the Department of Educa-
tion for having breached Public Service
regulations. Regulation 17 prevents an
employee, whether a teacher or not, from
making public comment on the depart-
mental administration and also from
using information gained or given to him
in connection with the public service.
Regulation 23 provides that permission
of the permanent head of the department
must be obtained before any public state-
ment is made. The General Secretary of
the Teachers’ Federation, Mr. I. Lan-
caster, says that if the regulations are to
be so strictly applied a teacher would be
prevented from revealing the cost of the
under-nines’ football jerseys. Although
the Board stuck to the letter of its regu-
lations, the teachers have apparently had
the last say.
In a concerted revolt against the
carpeting of the two teachers, 850 of
their colleagues from 47 schools in the
Illawarra area put their names to public
letters supporting the two and pin-pointing
shortcomings at their own schools. So
far the Board has chosen to ignore this
act of defiance, but still unresolved is the
basic issue of whether teachers should be
permitted to speak out in the interests of
their pupils and the parents.
Teachers themselves look to the estab-
lishment of an Education Commission to
set them apart from the ordinary public
servant. The Askin-Cutler Government
is pledged to provide such a commission,
and the first moves are likely before the
end of this year.
The big issue still unresolved here,
however, is whether the Teachers’ Federa-
tion will receive equal representation with
the Government on the commission. The
Federation’s regular bursts of embarras-
sing militancy makes it almost certain
that when the commission is appointed
the Federation will be submerged.


There is no Avis office
in Moscow.
But we’re working on it.
A LIKELY LOCATION
We’ve found a good central location
right between St. Basil’s and The Tomb.
Now all that we need is just one word
from the Commissar of Transport: “Da.”
How else can we have a really inter-
national rent a car system? If we ever get
the right papers, we’ll be pleased to rent
you a nice, well-kept new Ford. Or a
Zil, Volga, Chaika or Moskvich.
Then you can drive
from Minsk to Pinsk via
Omsk, and back to
Minsk. Or fly to Pinsk
and return to Minsk
AVIS
RENTA CAR
13478
MR COUNTRY TRAVELLER
254 MAIN STREET
DUBBO NSW AUST
(IN AUSTRALIA. AVIS IS A ONE HUNDRED PERCENT AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE)
through Omsk. This kind of flexible trip
planning is old stuff to 130 Avis stations in
Australia. But the Russians will probably
claim that they thought of it first.
3Ta peK.iaMa hh b xoeM cjiywae He HanpaßJieHa Ha ocxop6jieHHe pyccxoft o6mecTBeHHOCTH.
flowajiyHCTa npHMHTe ee b tom Ayxe, b xaxoM OHa HanncaHa.


m
\r
u
(
o
tm)
V)
Menzies service
(goes like clockwork!)
Prompt, courteous, efficient, Menzies
service never stops. But superb service
is only one of the things that makes your
stay at Menzies so enjoyable. Centrally
situated, with free in-hotel car-parking,
Menzies offers beautifully appointed
bedrooms with individually controlled
air-conditioning, genuine 24-hour room
service, and restaurants and bars to suit
every taste. Emperor Room Nightclub
features gourmet menu with floor show nightly
at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children).
JsETimS
r r
ii nn nr
fin nn rn nn
rr_nn rn im.
nn 808 nn
HI
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
ag-)
UZI/32
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA—Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND -Lennons, BRISBANE; Lennons, TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA—Wrast Point Riviera. HOBART.
VIETNAM
Writers and
Conscripts
THERE was a belated air to the state-
ment from 58 Australian writers last
week which declared conscription
“morally wrong . . . because ths Australian
community has not decisively demonstrated
its support.” It asked the Government not
to continue with the dispatch of conscripts.
The statement came after the peak of the
“great debate,” which seems to have
quietened down since the Australian Task
Force has actually left for Vietnam.
In a statement to THE BULLETIN
author David Martin said that he, Char-
mian Clift, and George Johnston had in-
vited the writers to sign the short letter,
which was then sent to metropolitan news-
papers and journals. The signatories in-
clude members of the Communist Party
Frank Hardy and Judah Waten as well
as non-political poets and writers. Later
in the week writers Dorothy Auchterlonie
and Bruce Beaver added their signatures.
Mr. Martin said that the statement was
not “organised” in any way nor was it
intended for any other purpose than that
stated. It was not sent to politicians or
political organisations and no organisation
had anything to do with its drafting or
publication.
Mr. Martin’s disclaimers could not very
well meet another point raised by Pro-
fessor David Armstrong, of Sydney Univer-
sity’s Philosophy Department, who in reply
to the authors’ statement, wrote in the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
“The great majority of writers and
poets who published a letter opposing con-
scription for Vietnam are liberals, demo-
crats, and opponents of political tyranny.
Why, therefore, do they join with known
supporters and apologists for totalitarian-
ism in putting forward their views? They
may argue that the rightness of their cause
makes irrelevant the motives of those who
support it. Would they associate them-
selves with apologists for General Franco
or Dr. Verwoerd when protesting against,
say, prison sentences for writers in the
Soviet Union? I would not. In any case,
do they not realise that Communists con-
tinally endeavor to associate themselves
with liberals, with the objectives of
manipulating these liberals and providing
cover for themselves as nothing but the
‘left wing’ of liberal opinion.”
The writers' letter, which raised ques-
tions of its own (Just what is a “national
cause”? And how “decisively” is de-
cisively?), follows:
Sir,
Whatever we may think of Australia’s
participation in the war in Vietnam, it is
not a national cause, because the Austra-
lian community has not decisively demon-
strated its support. Therefore, it is morally
wrong that young Australians should be
compelled to fight and perhaps die in
Vietnam, and we ask the Government not
to continue with the dispatch of con-
scripts.
Meena Abdullah, Dorothy Auchterlonie,


Hugh Anderson, Allan Ashbolt, Bruce
Beaver, Martin Boyd, R. F. Brissenden,
Robert Burns, David Campbell, Jon
Cleary, Betty Collins, C. B. Christesen,
Charmian Clift, Mary Durack, Geoffrey
Dutton, John K. Ewers, George Farwell,
Pat Flower, Robert D. Fitz Gerald, Neilma
Gantner, Oriel Gray, Rodney Hall, Frank
Hardy, Gwen Harwood, Bernard Hesling,
Dorothy Hewett, A. D. Hope, Flexmore
Hudson, Florence James, George Johnston,
Nancy Keesing, Sylvia Lawson, Noel
Macainsh, Mungo MacCallum, Donald
Mac Lean, /. S. Manifold, Leonard Mann,
Alan Marshall, David Martin, Oscar Men-
delsohn, Tony Morphett, Myra Morris,
John Morrison, Walter Murdoch, Aileen
Palmer, Katherine Susannah Prichard,
David Rowbotham, Roland Robinson,
Thomas Shapcott, R. A. Simpson, Bernard
Smith, Stephen Murray Smith, Ivan
Southall, Randolph Stow, Kylie Tennant,
John Thompson, Margaret Trist, F. B.
Vickers, Bill Wannan, Judah Waten.
LAW
Rough Justices
IN Perth on April 22 this year a 19-year-old Law student, who had already served
22 days of a three-month sentence, won his appeal before Mr. Justice Darcy. The
judge described the previous sentence imposed by two Justices of the Peace at
Exmouth as “unreasonable” for a “trivial” offence illegal use of a motor vehicle.
The offence was committed when the
student “borrowed” a truck belonging to
his firm to bring some of his workmates
back home from a beach party, a distance
of about three miles. The truck was
returned . undamaged immediately after-
wards.
The Justices of the Peace tried unsuc-
cessfully for an hour to telephone a Magis-
trate for advice before they imposed the
sentence of three months’ jail and 12
months’ disqualification from a driving-
licence. After his release by the Perth
Appeal Court the student commented with
admirable equanimity: “You can’t blame
the JPs if they give wrong sentences.
They are not lawyers and they are not
trained in the Law.”
Exactly a month earlier, Mr. Justice
Adam, of the Victoria Supreme Court,
described a decision of the Bench of
Justices at Camberwell in August last year
as “a travesty of justice.” The Judge con-
victed a man of driving under the influ-
ence of liquor, whom the suburban Justices
had freed after he had pleaded guilty to
the charge. The accused had six prior
convictions read to the court and after
pleading guilty, made no statement, gave
no evidence, called no witnesses, and did
not challenge police evidence. After a
40-minute adjournment of the Camberwell
Court the Chairman announced that
although the defendant had pleaded guilty
the Bench proposed to dismiss the charge.
The prosecuting officer had submitted that
the Court had no power to dismiss the
charges and requested to be told the reason
for the decision. The Chairman at first
said the reasons would be given in writing
but later said that there was no necessity
for this because the reasons were based on
the facts.
About the same time as this curious
decision at Camberwell two Justices of the
Peace in another suburb released a man on
£5O bail after they had committed him
for trial on a charge of rape (the man
has not been seen since, which is not
altogether surprising: rape carries a maxi-
mum penalty of 20 years). As the Sec-
retary of the Police Association said later:
“It’s hard to imagine how a JP could
fix such low bail for an offence which
carries such a severe penalty.”
In each State except New South Wales
Justices of the Peace may be found sit-
ting on the Bench of Petty Sessions, but
in Victoria their power is widest, and
their list of curious and incredible judg-
ments longest. Apart from those mentioned
the most celebrated case of recent years
concerned a 21-year-old South Australian
who was sentenced by a Ballarat JP to
six months’ jail for breaking a window
worth less than three dollars. This was
three months more than the maximum
penalty provided by the Act.
The fact that Justices of the Peace are
usually men of some public respectability
and achievement who give up their own
time for community service is not always
a consolation to those whom they have the
power to fine $lOOO or jail for two years.
Nor is the fact that they are not required
to have any formal training in Law or have
any other minimal education standard.
Any British Subject between 35 and 65,
sane and without a criminal record, is
eligible to become a JP. In Victoria
there are some 8000 of them, of whom
about 1000 give up a morning weekly or
less often, to sit on the Bench, either
alone, or with other JPs or with a Magis-
trate. In criminal cases two JPs can over-
rule a Magistrate sitting on the same
bench.
Sitting alone or without a Magistrate
the JP is largely at the mercy of the
Clerk of Courts for advice on procedure,
rules of evidence, and penalties. (The
Clerk of Courts must have passed three
Law subjects and have considerable Petty
Sessions experience.) Some of the Justices
belong to the Honorary Justices Associa-
tion, which equips its members with a
handbook on Jurisdiction and Court pro-
cedures; a smaller number attend volun-
tary legal discussion groups.
No one doubts that most of Australia’s
JPs intend to use their powers fairly and
justly. The argument against them is that
they do not know the law. This accounts
for most of the inconsistencies and the
wide divergence from court to court in
their judgments. With little legal know-
ledge and no legal tradition they are at
the mercy of smart lawyers, cunning wit-
nesses, tough police prosecutors, and their
own personal whims and prejudices.
Operating under this system lawyers
have developed their own private ratings
of the lower courts: “Mr. X is a good
bloke, especially with drunks. He likes a
few jars himself. You should get a bond;”
“Mr. Y hates cops. You’ve got a poor
case, but if the cops start to get his back
up you could get off;” “Mr. Z is usually
fair with speeding charges. You’ll get a
fine and keep your licence. But don’t ever
come up before him on a sex charge.
He really throws the book at sex offenders.”
The same kinds of rating and estima-
tions (usually with great accuracy) are
made of Petty Sessions Magistrates: “A is
very fair in court and a surprisingly know-
ledgeable lawyer for a magistrate”; “B is
hard and humorless and hates motorists”;
“C is mates with all the cops. He takes
his cue from how hard they press the
case”; “D is pretty stupid and his judg-
ments are always being set aside in higher
courts. Anything can happen with him.”
The magistrates are required to have
completed certain legal studies - the
amount varies from State to State—and
normally serve as Clerks of Court for ten
or twenty years before rising to the Bench.
They know a great deal more Law than
the Justices of the Peace, but there is often
an alarming variation in their decisions
and penalties. One magistrate in New
South Wales, regarded as the toughest in
Australia, has handed out these penalties:
• two weeks’ jail to a woman of 61 for
her first conviction, stealing four packets
of cigarettes;
• ten years’ driving-licence suspension
to a youth who drove a car with one
bald tyre;
• four months’ jail to a youth who stole
food worth 42 cents. The youth was
unemployed at the time of the offence;
• four weeks’ jail to a man who stole tea
and bacon worth about 60 cents.
This particular magistrate is consistent,
at least. Last year he jailed a Justice of
the Peace for a month on hard labor for
his first offence, petty theft. The JP was
an invalid pensioner with a bad heart.
In delivering judgment the magistrate
explained that even though the case dis-
tressed him he had to be “logical”; after
all, he said, “I have given jail sentences
to women for shoplifting.”
The discrepancies between the penalties,
inflicted by this man and those imposed
by softer magistrates create a serious bal-
ance of injustice: a state of affairs in
which whim and prejudice can be more
important than State law and legal pre-
cedent, and in which individuals suffer
unnecessarily and the law is brought into
disrepute. Most lawyers who spend much
time in the lower courts seem agreed that
the Justice of the Peace system should be
abolished and the magistrates much better
trained. A leading Melbourne barrister put
the case briefly last week:
“The magistrates and JPs usually de-
fend themselves on the ground that com-
mon sense is the most important quality
on the lower court benches. But no amount
of common or good sense can make up-
for lack of wide and precise legal know-
ledge. If people pay money to have
lawyers represent them, they should have
lawyers or men with appropriate legal
knowledge hearing the cases.”
BRIAN BUCKLEY


SEATO
Whose House?
ATTEMPTS at combining security and
ceremony seem bound to produce
farce. They certainly did last week
in Parliament House at the opening session
of the SEATO Conference. For many, the
climax came when a Pakistani member
of the staff warned the military advisers
to keep their heaps of secret documents
carefully covered because of the possi-
bility of pressmen spying out the details
of contingency plans.
What with Pakistan on better diplo-
matic terms with the Chinese than most
Communist States and their army being
equipped with Chinese weapons and
helped by Chinese military instructors, it
was rather comical to have a Pakistani
talking security.
Indeed it posed the question as to
whether really serious military planning
can be conducted with Pakistan and
France as members of the organisation.
Officials, of course, insist that it can and
that the talks are a most important part
of plans for the containment of Chinese
Communist influence. But the walling up
of the women’s lavatory, the scores of
soldiers scattered through the corridors,
and the multiple systems of passes only
managed to raise again an old question
of the propriety of using Parliament House
for non-Pariiamentary purposes.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, at his
Friday Press conference was quite blunt:
“This is not purely a Parliament building
in the traditional sense.” He pointed out
that it provided offices for Ministers and
their staffs, and for journalists, and that
it has been used for a number of non-
Parliamentary conferences in the past.
Well briefed, he cited the Japanese Peace
Settlement Conference in 1947, a previous
SEATO meeting in 1957, the Common-
wealth Parliamentary Association meeting
in 1959, and an Antarctic meeting in 1961.
The Canadian and New Zealand Govern-
ments regularly use their Parliament build-
ings for such occasions. But the decisive
argument on his side is simply that there
is no alternative at present to the use of
Parliament House. Such an affair as
SEATO requires a conference-room which
will hold at least 100 people, large rooms
for sub-committees, and many suites for
the different delegations.
Perhaps there should be an alternative.
The National Capital Development Com-
mission plans a major conference centre in
its own right, although the present policy is
that the existing Parliament House should
be adapted to this role as soon as the new
ope down on the banks of the lake is
complete. But that will be at least 10
years, possibly 20. And meanwhile im-
portant conference business will be in-
adequately catered for.
It remains true, therefore, that there is
a lot of justification for the complaints
of Mr. Allan Fraser. Members of Parlia-
ment should at least be told when and
why Parliament is being turned over to
other authorities.
THE OPERA HOUSE
Amnesty’s End
THE amnesty seems to have ended.
Now Mr. Joern Utzon is being pub-
licly criticised in strong words by
his former employers at the Sydney
Opera House.
Until last week, most of the rude words
about the Opera House affair had come
from the rabidly pro-Utzon publications
of some University architecture faculties
and in statements by members of the
Utzon In Charge Committee, particularly
on the matter of the motives of the anti-
Utzon forces.
But now the N.S.W. Minister for Public
Works, Mr. Davis Hughes, has changed
his tactics. No longer does he simply
repeat what had become the monotonous
comment that Mr. Utzop had resigned and
that was all there was to it. Last week he
attacked Mr. Utzon in strong terms for
“resigning without just cause” and for
making an “incredible blunder” over
seating.
The Opera House Trust also emerged
from its shell to make its first statement
since the dispute between the Minister and
the architect came into the open more
than three months ago.
On the matter of seating, the Trust
asserted, Mr. Utzon had provided them
with plans in 1958 that showed 2800 seats
22 inches wide and with three feet between
rows. The trust said that in two long
reports submitted to it last year, and
another verbal report in February, Mr.
Utzon did not indicate that the seat
dimensions were being changed in any
way.
But according to the new architectural
panel led by Mr. Peter Hall (who left
last week for overseas) on the design
side, the plans Mr. Utzon left behind him
showed a proposed row spacing of 2ft.
7in. in the auditorium and 2ft. sin. in
the gallery, to provide what the panel
estimated as 2250 seats which would
become only 1800 if reasonable spacing
were adopted,
However, Mr. Utzon’s former assistant
on the Opera House, Mr. Bill Wheatland,
denies that there is any problem involved
in the seating. “You could fit 2800 people
into the major hall; it is a function of
the acoustics,” Mr. Wheatland said last
week. He said that Utzon’s design for the
seating, demonstrating how it could be
done, had not been shown to anyone.
Nor would it be. He said the drawings left
behind indicate the row spacing but do
not indicate the seating or actual seats
themselves.
Mr. Wheatland added that the new
architects had applied their own criteria
to Mr. Utzon’s unfinished drawings.
He was speaking at a seminar on the
Opera House at which Sydney architect
Don Gazzard and THE BULLETIN’S
Finance Editor, Michael Baume, pre-
sented papers last week. The meeting,
organised by the Australian Association
for Cultural Freedom, agreed by a large
majority to appoint a committee to suggest
terms of reference for a public inquiry
into the “objectives that have been and
are being formulated for the Sydney Opera
House and the organisational arrange-
ments that have been and are being made
to achieve these objectives.”
It also suggested that such an inquiry
should look into the method of formula-
tion and the nature and content of briefs
upon which the panel will base its archi-
tectural decisions. But chances of getting
an inquiry look slight, if only *because the
prospect of legal action over Mr. Utzon’s
fees (that would render the matter sub-
judice) now seems great.


■
Mrs. Jones buys margarine,
her neighbour buys butter...
is Mrs. Jones
Alk^lsii?
Last year, Mrs. Jones and tens of thousands of other Aus-
tralian housewives saved a combined $11,250,000 out of
their household budgets because they preferred margarine.
Tens of thousands more housewives bought poly-unsaturated
margarine, which sells at the same price as butter, simply
because they liked the way it spreads and felt it was better
for their families.
Australian butter is as fine a product as any in the world, no
housewife should ever be denied its use. Surely the same is
true of Australian margarine made with Australian vegetable
oils. Why, then, must the housewife be denied a free and
abundant supply of Australian margarine? Why is the manu-
facture and sale of margarine under a stringent and com-
pletely outdated quota system set up 25 years ago?
The Quota System and how it happened
A quarter of a century ago, when the raw material used in
margarine was largely imported, State Governments imposed
heavy quota restrictions on the amount of table margarine
which could be sold, as well as regulating the amount of
vegetable oil that could be used in cooking margarines. At
the time, the Australian Dairy Industry needed all the help it
could get, and restricting margarine seemed the logical thing
to do. Every country has the right to protect and cherish
every one of its primary industries. However, that right can
hardly extend to protecting one Australian primary industry
at the expense of another Australian primary industry. And
this is largely what has happened.
The birth of a New Australian Primary Industry
Australia has a new and dynamic primary industry, as impor-
tant to our future as wheat and maize and oats ... it is the
Edible Oilseeds Industry. Safflower Oil, Cotton Oil and Peanut
Oil. Margarine is the major user of these three oils, but out-
dated controls restrict the manufacture of table margarine to
a level well below popular public demand even when they are
made from these pure home-grown oils. These controls dic-
tate that only minor amounts of Australian vegetable oils can
be used in retail cooking margarines.
Not only is the Australian housewife getting a raw deal, but
the biggest potential boom in Australian primary industry is
threatened with going bust. The men who plant safflower,
cotton and peanuts are not asking for special consideration,
but only that the outdated controls imposed a quarter of a
century ago be lifted and that they be allowed to move
forward.
The vision to get going
Right from the start, the growth and the expansion of the
Edible Oilseeds Industry has been forcefully supported by the
vision of one Australian company, Marrickville Margarine Pty.
Ltd. (a subsidiary of Marrickville Holdings Ltd.). It was largely
they who carved out a major new market, they who paid for
the thousands of hours of research, and it was they who
developed sales that encouraged the farmer to build a new
staple crop.
From the home-grown safflower oil, they made a new kind of
margarine, they called it poly-unsaturated MIRACLE, a product
of such quality, it successfully competes at the same price as
butter. Similarly, new products and new margarines are being
developed from peanut oil and cotton oil.
These products must benefit the housewife, and they can be
made from raw materials that will put millions of dollars into
the pockets of the Australian farmer.
Congratulations, Mrs. Jones!
MARRICKVILLE HOLDINGS LTD. An all-Australian Company
27.167


Mr. Eyeball
The Quiet American
By GEORGE McGANN
The quiet American,” “The
Silent Secretary,” “The Faceless
Diplomat,” “The Man Nobody
Knows,” “The Anonymous Mr. Rusk.”
These are but a few of .the names coined
by journalists seeking to penetrate the
mystery of America’s controversial Secre-
tary of State, David Dean Rusk.
He has been in that key office for more
than five years, under two Presidents, and
has toiled—quietly, silently, anonymously,
if you will through such major crises
as the Bay of Pigs invasion, the “Eyeball
to Eyeball” (his phrase, by the way)
confrontation with the Russians in Cuba,
and the recurring excursions and alarms
of the Vietnamese political and military
entanglement. Regularly the rumor seeps
out of “Foggy Bottom,” the Washington
insiders’ designation for the ancient State
Department building, that Rusk is about
to be replaced.
But Rusk stays on. “He is number one
in the Cabinet and number one with me,”
President Lyndon Johnson said of Rusk
following publication of the most recent
rumor of his imminent passing. There is
no reason to think that the President has
since changed his opinion of Rusk or ever
will.
Rusk is the very model of the modern
Secretary of State one who lets his
President do most of the talking, make
most of the decisions, and take most of
the credit or discredit as the case may be.
In the case of Vietnam, however,' Rusk
has had to share the discredit, especially
as it was heaped on him by members of
his own Democratic Party, notably Sena-
tors Fulbright, Morse, and the adherents
in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
But in sharing the trials of the President,
Secretary Rusk has shown quiet strength
and loyal attachment. His eloquent defence
of administration policies in public utter-
ances earned him praise from unexpected
quarters. Roscoe Drummond, a staunch
Republican commentator, has acclaimed
Rusk as “the right man in the right place
at the right time and proving it every
day.”
The New York “Times,” often highly
critical of the Johnson policies in Viet-
nam, depicted Rusk at bay before the
Senate Foreign Affairs Committee as
“decent, dignified, circumspect, self-
controlled, and self-effacing . . . unafraid
of ceaseless reiteration of his dream of a
civilised world.”
Rusk comes from poor, stalwart
Anglo-Saxon hill - country people in
Georgia. His father was a tenant farmer
who had to give up aspirations for the
Presbyterian ministry when his voice fail-
ed. Dean worked his way through David-
son College and won a Rhodes Scholar-
ship to Oxford. He advanced in life, it
has been pointed out, not through family
tradition but the gift of great patrons.
General Stilwell promoted him to be-
come his Deputy Chief of Staff in China
during World War 11. General George
Marshall advanced him in the Pentagon
and brought him to the State Department
when Marshall became Secretary of State.
In the Department he successively won
the favor of both Dean Acheson and
George Foster Dulles, no mean feat. Dulles
made Rusk head of the Rockefeller Foun-
dation. From that post he returned to the
State Department as its principal officer in
1961 at the behest of John Fitzgerald
Kennedy, another of his admirers and
benefactors.
As one would surmise, Rusk possesses
social and intellectual qualities which en-
dear him to men in high places. He is a
good companion, an even-tempered, mild-
mannered subordinate. He laughs easily and
likes a joke, a drink of bourbon, or game
of tennis. He is shy, selfconscious with
strangers, but gets on well with all levels
even pressmen assigned to the State
Department, whose barbs he often feels
deeply. He instituted a weekly meeting of
the “Bottle Club,” consisting of State De-
partment officers and reporters. “To have
a drink with Dean Rusk,” admitted one
reporter, “is to like Dean Rusk.”
To work with Rusk is also to admire
his ability. Those who have done so
his teachers in school, dons at Oxford,
the faculty at Mills College in California,
where he taught International Relations,
his fellow-officers during the war, and his
colleagues in the State Department all
agree on that. “He sees all the elements
in a situation,” a State Department officer
remarked. “He keeps cool and he moves
fast.”
One of his most notable gifts is fluency
of speech. He authored, as noted, the
“Eyeball to Eyeball” phrase which will
forever mark the missile crisis in Cuba.
He also commented: “The eagle in the
seal of the United States has two claws,
one bearing arrows, the other an olive
branch.” President Kennedy paid Rusk the
tribute of borrowing the phrase for his
inaugural address. President Johnson has
openly envied the Secretary his eloquence.
But with the eloquence goes reserve. He
made no close friends among his wartime
associates. He has no coterie of associates
who move with him, but works with any
staff members who are on the job when
he gets there. President Kennedy called
all other members of his Cabinet by their
first names but deferred to “Mr. Rusk.”
Rusk is a solid, beefy, moon-faced man,
well over six feet and 200 pounds. He is
quietly tough “tough in the sense of
good spring steel.” He remembers the ad-
monition of a Georgia circuit preacher
from boyhood days “Pray as if it were
up to God; work as if it were up to you.”
“He’s a man of a million ideas,” one
of his State Department associates com-
mented when Rusk was an Under-Secre


rs
% r\ r\ ]
*? 1 1
m ipi
<£&&&««***"*.
flr//| * f // /
\< « i | f < I f *>*
im j iii
‘ ‘ 'lfrV„
S 5 I fill
> ; x- .y cJ> £• A .*' '
ffiiii
111111
Hit
{Hi
fl£
I : ;.;
ijllil
<yy-. avas»x % ■v.y.w JUV *4
I *} ft f f
\y : \: i > H * r,Ui II
S? * ; **u j i | |lUr
"P^
i{ %< | i gj«&»
l'i
a p)
“In Italy, too,
they lean to Vat 69
fine old Scotch Whisky ”
All over the world . . . one Scotch stands out
VAT 69
WJ
3
NZL 68/6.2c
tary. “He throws out ideas all the time.
When we faced the Berlin blockade he
raised the question, ‘Why shouldn’t we
run an armored train through and see what
happens?’ A long time after, some of the
generals had the same idea.”
He has the courage of his convictions,
too. In June, 1950, Rusk was Assistant
Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs.
He was summoned from a Georgetown
dinner party when the North Koreans
attacked. Rusk was eloquent and per-
suasive in the midnight session at the State
Department. Secretary Acheson listened
and soon afterward advised President
Truman that he and his colleagues favored
immediate reference of the crisis to the
United Nations. That led to the first col-
lective resistance to Communist aggression.
Rusk later played a part in the Truman
Administration’s decision to remove
General MacArthur from his post in Japan
for insubordination. He also participated
in conferences which led to the dispatch-
ing of the Seventh Fleet to Formosa
not only to protect the island from Com-
munist attack but to forestall Chinese
Nationalist invasions of the mainland.
In March, 1952, Rusk became president
of the Rockefeller Foundation and in the
next eight years directed the spending of
some 250 million dollars in aid to under-
developed nations in Asia, Africa, and
Latin America in the areas of health prob-
lems and development of natural and
social sciences. In December, 1960, Presi-
dent Kennedy named Rusk as his Secre-
tary of State, although he had met him
only a few days earlier. Kennedy called
Rusk “the best man available that the
United States could get,” one who would
bring to the office “the long view of the
student of world affairs, the concern for
peace shared by all those who have known
war at first hand, and a practical work-
ing experience in the conduct of our
foreign relations.”
Rusk’s most trying period as Secretary
of State has come in recent months, as
America’s involvement in Vietnam has
grown ever greater and as the prospect
of peace or early settlement has receded.
Along with Secretary of Defence Rob-
ert McNamara, and President Johnson,
Rusk has had to listen to the shrill cries
of the “hawks,” who want escalation in
Vietnam, and the angry cooing of the
“doves,” who want the XJ.S. to get out
of Vietnam at any cost. His severest
ordeal came at the hearings of the Foreign
Affairs Committee, when he withstood
seven hours of barbed questioning from
Chairman Fulbright and his fellow sena-
tors. It was during this heated exchange
that Rusk gave as America’s principal
basis for its actions in Vietnam the coun-
try’s commitment to SEATO. He was
roundly derided for this “excuse” by Ful-
bright and those who disagree with the
administration policies in Vietnam.
rusk returned to the SEATO theme,
however, in a major policy speech in
New York a few weeks later before the
Council on Foreign Relations. His remarks
were glossed over in the Press, but had a
pertinence to Australia and the entire
Asiatic area which made them memorable.
“The assertion that the Department of
State only recently rediscovered the
SEATO treaty is untrue,” Rusk stated. “In
Article IV each party recognised that
.‘aggression by means of armed attack in the
treaty area (including the nations which
came out of French Indo-China) would en-
danger its own safety and agrees to meet
the common danger.’ In testimony be-
fore the Foreign Relations Committee,
Secretary of State Dulles said specifically
that this clause covered an armed attack
‘by the regime of Ho Chi Minh.’ ”
Furthermore, said Rusk, President Ken-
nedy had referred to American obligations
under SEATO on a number of occasions,
including his last public utterance, and
President Johnson had done so frequently.
In August, 1964, the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate had adopted a
resolution stating: “The United States re-
gards as vital to its national interest and
to world peace the maintenance of inter-
national peace and security in South-East
Asia. The United States, therefore, is pre-
pared, as the President determines, to take
all necessary steps, including the use of
armed force, to assist any member or
protocol State of the South-East Asia
collective defence treaty requesting assist-
ance in defence of its freedom.” Rusk
asserted that “a large majority of the
governments of the free world” were sym-
pathetic to American efforts in South-East
Asia. “Gallant troops from Korea, Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand are fighting at the
side of our forces and those of Vietnam.
Thailand and Laos are fully engaged in
the large issue of South-East Asia.”
Rusk rephrased the administration
thesis, that Vietnam posed the same kind
of threat now that the Axis powers did
in the nineteen thirties.
“The clearest lesson of the nineteen
thirties and forties is that aggression feeds
on aggression,” he maintained. “I am
aware that Mao and Ho Chi Minh are
not Hitler and Mussolini. But we ought
not to forget what we have learned about
the anatomy and physiology of aggression.
We should know better than to ignore the
aggressor’s openly proclaimed intentions
or to fall victim to the notion that he will
stop if you let him have just one more
bite or speak to him a little more gently.”


You can cut up to 90% off insurance rates with Air Cargo
Victa saved 63%...
Remington and Cyanamid also saved substantially
Australian manufacturers get lower insurance rates
when they consign by Qantas ... as much as 90%
lower. Why? Because air freight gets a smoother,
gentler ride, your goods are delivered undamaged.
Because Qantas security measures are in force around
the clock, pilferage and loss are virtually wiped
out and your cargo is handled less frequently.
Air freight costs less than you think—frequently
costs no more. Many regular consignments fly at
special low freight rates. Qantas V-Jets speed your
consignments to all world markets within 36 hours.
Jet-age packaging is just as streamlined—always
lightweight, sometimes not needed! Write for literature
to: The Export Consultant Service, Qantas Empire
Airways Limited, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EEXZZZ23
dependable service
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 125 flights a week to and from Australia.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A
A 73.97.66


After the Viet Cong Collapse
An Australian-Asian Summing-up
By PETER SAMUEL
IT is now abundantly clear to all except
those who live in dreamworlds, that
the war in Vietnam is being won.
A year ago the Viet Cong were almost
daily over-running government outposts,
ambushing military convoys, and threaten-
ing provincial cities. Today, it is the Viet
Cong who are being ambushed and it is
Viet Cong camps which are being daily
threatened and attacked. Their “Yenans”
in the jungle are no longer secure and they
face immense problems of morale and
logistics. Northerners now constitute about
half the VC’s political cadre and regular
army troops, and being regarded as
foreigners in the south, they are unable
to live as fish in a Maoist sea of peasantry
and unable to mount serious military
attacks. They are on the run.
When we stop to think about it, this
is hardly surprising. The Viet Cong,
200,000 strong at the .most, backed by the
pitifully small industrial resources of North
Vietnam and getting limited support from
other Communist nations, is pitted not only
against an army of 700,000 but against
the most powerful nation on earth. The
Viet Cong have brought down upon them-
selves the efforts of a nation with armed
forces numbering 3,000,000 (even there-
fore quantitatively more powerful than
China) equipped with the most awesome
machinery of war.
What is really remarkable, looking back
on it, is that anyone should have seriously
feared that the Communists need win on
the battlefield. I seem to remember dis-
tinguished military experts like Professor
C. P. Fitzgerald, Professor W. McMahon
Ball, and the Rev. A. Walker proclaiming
that it was physically impossible to start
winning a war like this unless we fielded
eight or ten men to each Viet Cong. And
unfortunately those Viet Cong would just
keep on coming, so we would never be
able to achieve the necessary ratio. As it
turned out it was nowhere near as bad
as the defeatists would have had us believe.
Those ratios turned out to be bunk, the
adoption of aggressive mobile tactics
changing the character of the war. The
Viet Cong, being propelled by less esoteric
things than the “tides of history,” began
to face slow but sure destruction.
The var is far from being over yet,
and the Viet Cong may yet pull off a few
spectacular feats, but the war is increas-
ingly taking the form of a series of
mopping-up exercises. These will be a
bloody and horrible business but there is
little doubt that it can now be successfully
accomplished.
It is a fairly familiar point, then, that to
use General Giap’s words, it is a question
of whether we have “the psychological
and political means to fight a long drawn-
out war.” So it becomes as much a politi-
cal struggle with the fainthearts, the
isolationists, the pro-Communists, and the
pacifists at home as it is a .military struggle
abroad.
The latest book on the subject, pub-
lished this week “Vietnam: Seen from
East and West,” edited by Professor S.
Ray, of Melbourne University’s Depart-
ment of Indian Studies (Thomas Nelson,
paperback $1.50, board $2.50) —is very
valuable. If its 16 contributors do some-
times cover old ground and repeat one
another a little, they also provide a col-
lection of new ideas. Individually, some
of the contributions are outstanding: Pro-
fessor Scalapino, of California, puts a
compelling case for U.S. policies, and
Mr. Santamaria, of Melbourne, presents
the most concise yet persuasive case for
Australian involvement I have read: the
Vietnamese writers Hoang Van Chi
(who will shortly visit Australia) and
Ton That Thien make the glib generalisa-
tions of local leftists look rather silly; the
Britisher P. J. Honey puts the struggle in
a novel historical perspective, pointing out
that the South has always been the de-
fender of Vietnamese values, the North
always heavily influenced by the Chinese;
Mr. Owen Harries, of Sydney, does an
extremely elegant wrecking job on the
major arguments of the protesters . . .
In the discussion which has raged in
Western countries over the past 18 months,
the protesters have generally had the
initiative and an important advantage.
Their case is a negative one: for non-
involvement, for opting out. To effectively
win the argument they have not had to
convince, simply to create doubt. It has
only been necessary for them to kick up
an immense number of bits and pieces of
ideas and information to create a cloud
of confusion. That is probably why they
won at the teach-ins. Farcically long,
dreary, and repetitive, these were very
effective in confusing those who attended.
Being on the the supporters
of involvement have tended to make two
mistakes. Firstly, they have become bogged
down in rather tedious disputes about
trivial matters of fact. The protester often
tends to have the utopian assumption that
the evidence can be found to prove the
rightness of involvement. In fact, as
Donald Horne argues in his contribution
to the new book, there is a great deal of
phoniness in the search for the facts; many
important ones can never be ascertained
with much confidence. But politicians, un-
like academics, have to make decisions,
however unsatisfactory the evidence, be-
cause for them to fail to decide to be
involved is to decide to be uninvolved.
The “untidiness of decision” repels the in-
tellectual and often leaves him a whinging
dissenter.
A second mistake is in becoming too
tied up in complexities. The notion that
the Viet Cong insurgency is somehow a
spontaneous uprising in response to unsatis-
factory conditions is so romantic that those
who hold it will probably never be won
over by the necessarily patchy informa-
tion on Hanoi’s role. It is probably more
effective to outline the pattern into which
the current struggle fits—Burma, Malaysia,
India, etc. and to cite the Communist
Party leaders who have insisted on an
activist role, on giving history a push
for example, Che Guevara: “It is not
necessary to wait until all the conditions
making for revolution exist; the insurrec-
tion can create them.”
Another result of being on the defensive
is that the problems of the future are
overlooked. Thus it is arguable that in not
so long the Viet Cong will be taking such
a thrashing militarily and the prospects
of military success will have become so
dim that they will agree to the American
offer of talks. There has, until this book,
been almost no discussion of what the
West should do in this case. It is not diffi-
cult to imagine what the protesters would
demand: immediate cessation of bombing,
the cancellation of search and destroy
missions, perhaps even some troop with-
drawals.
Yet, as Mr. Kwanggil Kay points out,
in the Korean War fighting continued
while truce talks were being conducted.
And being a conventional war, fought with
an easily determined set of frontlines,
with the combatants regular troops, there
were relatively few technical problems in
arranging and enforcing a ceasefire there.
But there is no precedent for a successful
negotiation of an irregular war of the
Vietnamese type. The 1954 settlement in


Vietnam was a capitulation, and the
Laotian talks were hardly a settlement.
Guerilla wars of the past have only been
settled through complete defeat Malaya,
Greece, Philippines, Indonesia, India or
in complete victory Cuba, Vietnam,
China. Others such as that in Burma go
on.
Mr. Hoang Van Chi describes the 1954
Geneva agreements as a “naive” formula
for peace and most unsatisfactory as the
basis for any future settlement. It includes
no prohibitions on the use of irregular
forces, or on campaigns of terrorism,
assassination, and the like. The Interna-
tional Control Commission has no real
power to enforce its recommendations and
its troika structure one Communist,
one neutral, and one Westerner means
that it rarely comes to a unanimous con-
clusion. It has no teeth.
Professor Scalapino suggests that the
West should during negotiations be pre-
pared to accept restrictions on military
operations equivalent to those on the other
side. Since insurgency is technically so
different from counter-insurgency there
would be great difficulty in deciding just
what were equivalent restrictions on each
side. But more fundamental is the prob-
lem that any retention of military power
by the insurgents would be incompatible
with a lasting settlement. Unless they lay
down their arms completely and perman-
ently it is difficult to see how there can
be peace. At the most there might be a
de-escalation of the conflict, and that
would be probably temporary. How can
you sustain peacefully parallel systems of
administration, law enforcement, military
control, and the like within and through-
out one country?
Magsaysay, of the Philippines, may
have had the right answer to the Huk in-
surgents when he offered them two alterna-
tives only: all-out friendship or all-out
force; they could either surrender or be
destroyed. That was the policy in Malaya,
too. Maybe it should be the policy in
Vietnam? At least it should be discussed.
Of course any argument in Australia is
made difficult by the way-out capitulation-
ist posture adopted by the Labor Party.
Its resolution as adopted on May 12
criticises Western policies and demands
the cessation of bombing, the withdrawal
of foreign forces, and other major conces-
sions. Yet almost incredibly it offers no
criticism of the behaviour of the Com-
munists and it requires no concessions
whatsoever from them. It is a recipe for
a staged surrender.
It is ironical that this should occur at
just about the time that European Com-
munist parties are showing signs of grow-
ing impatience with Chinese and North
Vietnamese intransigence and urging
them to make concessions. The Yugoslav
magazine “Ekonomika Politika” recently
published a sharp attack on Peking and
Hanoi. It accused Peking and Hanoi of
“exploiting” the Vietnamese people. Hanoi
is “resorting to lies in accordance with
the demands of Peking.” Pleas for peace
are “deliberately misinterpreted” by
arrogant leaders “whose people suffer.”
Can we expect to hear Dr. Cairns de-
nouncing the revisionist American lackeys
in Yugoslavia?
Political Monks
The Vicars of Hue
Thich Tri Quang
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
APART from a select band of Western
scholars, most Westerners bold
enough to comment on Buddhism
have done neither Buddhists nor them-
selves any great service. For example, the
German historian Oswald Spengler roundly
declared: “Buddhism is unthinkable with-
out a bodily diet to match its spiritual
diet.” Paul Valery argued in the face
of Vietnamese Catholicism, that a religion
based upon bread and wine could never
appeal to the devotees of one based upon
rice and water.
Ceylonese Buddhism quickly turned the
disgusted D. H. Lawrence into a topee
imperialist for a while: “Those ratholes
(the Singhalese monks’ dwellings) . . .
Better Christ than Buddha!” The present
French Minister for Culture, Andre Mai-
raux, was provoked by Buddhism into
making one of his grandiloquently silly
misses, amongst some superb insights in
his “Psychologie de L’Art,” writing of
“history, whose importunity now obsesses
Europe, much as Buddha’s pyrrhonism
disintegrated Asia . . .”
There has never, of course, been an
“Asia” in this sense; and both Hindus and
Confucians would be humorously delighted
by this fantasy, their societies not only
having lasted so very long after the pro-
clamation of the Lord Buddha’s message,
milleniums indeed, but having managed so
successfully to subsume Buddhism within
these societies so very successfully.
Here Spengler’s understanding of his-
tory supplies a necessary corrective of
sorts: “There was no movement of Budd-
hism from India to China (around the
lst-3rd centuries A.D.), but an accep-
tance of part of the Indian Budd-
hist’s store of images by Chinese of a
certain spiritual tendency, who fashioned
out a new mode of religious expression
having meaning for Chinese, and Chinese
only . . .” This, of course, in turn
grotesquely deforms the universal content
of Buddhism and suppresses the point that
significant differences of interpretation
had caused a schism in Buddhism before
its message ever propagated beyond the
boundaries of its native India.
This may seem a very odd manner in
which to start an article supposed to
throw some light on “the Buddhist Ques-
tion” in South Vietnam today. And yet
it is necessary; necessary to point up
immediately the confusions about Budd-
hism in the West; necessary to establish
the fact that Buddhism is very different
in different areas of “Asia,” and that in
the two greatest societies of “Asia” it was
neither a system of philosophical doubt,
as Andre Malraux has suggested, nor the
abidingly national religion,
It is this last point that is the heart
of the matter today. Whereas the Therava-
din Buddhism of Ceylon, Burma, Thai-
land, Laos, and Cambodia sometimes
described as “agnostic” or even atheistic


n
m
*
felt®
iwi.
S'r.'v"
The supreme test of a car’s surefooted-*
ness is how well it handles in the wet.
We sincerely believe no saloon yet built
has such an unshakeable grip on the
road—wet or dry—as this one. That's
one very good reason why it beat every
touring car in the world in the slush-
soused Monte Carlo Rally. Starting from
the road and working up, the very tyres
of the Rover 2000 are revolutionary.
Known as Squat-Profile Radial Ply tyres,
they produce a “squeegee” effect which
actually transforms wet roads into dry
ones. Try it. Brake a Rover 2000 on a wet
road, then get out and look. You’ll see
twin strips of bone-dry road. Now try
something else. Seek out some slippery
tram tracks (it’s worth a trip to Melbourne
—or San Francisco—to find some). Now
deliberately straddle them with all four
wheels. What happens? Nothing. Not a
thing. You just don’t know they’re there.
(Please don’t try this with an ordinary car.
We mean it.) Something else is playing its
part here: the remarkable De Dion-in-
spired, Rover-developed suspension
WHAT
HANDLES
THE WET
LIKE NOTHING
ON
EARTH?
which "Autocar” describes as "the ulti-
mate ... an armchair ride with sports car
safety". What else do you need in the
wet? Well, naturally, warmth. Rover 2000
gives it to you from a magnificent, two-
speed, fan-boosted heater which Rolls
also have chosen. But in case the
cocoon-like cosiness of the Rover’s
hide-deep, whisper-quiet interior tends
to lull you to sleep, you can adjust per-
sonalised dash vents to direct cooling
draughts of fresh air onto your face.
That’s just one of a score of thoughtful
refinements with which this unique
sports saloon is so lavishly embellished.
To look them all over takes quite a time.
About half an hour is par for the course
—plus another half-hour to sample the
rock-steady ride, the hit-you-in-the-back
acceleration (0-100 in 45 secs, if you’re
game) and the deeply-satisfying stop-
ping power of 4 wheel disc brakes.
A phone call to your Rover dealer's is all
it takes.
ROVER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. i R 1529


Buddhism, though this is scarcely true on
the popularly emotional level has be-
come the national, even if not necessarily
established faith of these nations, this is
certainly not true of the Mahayana lands
of China and its cultural colony of Viet-
nam. Mahayana Buddhism is in effect
a religion offering ordinary mortals help
toward salvation through the agency of
Enlightened Ones who have put off their
Buddhahood for this purpose.
The essential point about Buddhism is
that it is individualistic to a degree, and,
indeed, in a fashion difficult for those
who belong to the ‘Semitic” tradition of
Judaism, Christianity, and Islam to grasp;
and altogether unacceptable to the com-
munitarian ritual traditions of Hinduism
and Confucianism. “By oneself is evil done;
By oneself one suffers; By oneself one is
purified,” as the Dhammapada puts it. It
has, indeed, its social order; but it is an
Order of monks, “beggars” devoting their
whole lives to freeing themselves finally
from an otherwise endless cycle of exist-
ences.
The purity of their aim, and not seldom
the purity of manner in which they tread
the “middle Way” toward liberation, is
something that deeply moves anyone who
has come into contact with some of the
best of them. But quite clearly, as has
been proved by long historical experience,
such an understanding of what life is all
about is conducive neither to staying
power as a civilisation of significance
(civilisations aspire to express or, today,
to suppress destiny, not to escape it) nor
to the formulation of a powerful social
“ideology” appropriate to the community
at large. Such communal matters are in
the deepest sense irrelevant to Buddhism’s
understanding of “what it is all about.”
Moreover, and especially relevant to-
day, Buddhism is not only essentially in-
dividualistic, essentially apolitical, it is
essentially ahistoric. Christians, Jews, Mos-
lems, and Progressives, whether small-1
liberal or Bolshevik, all share a belief in
the meaningfulness of history. It may be
regarded as the unfolding of God’s pur-
pose or the progressive liberation of men
from material suffering, but either way
it is meaningful. For the Buddhist it is
not.
The central point I am making and
I believe it is altogether central to any
understanding of Buddhist “Questions”
anywhere in the world today is this:
the Sangha, the Order of the monks, has
its back against the wall, so to speak,
politically and socially. And this is being
deeply obscured at present by the appar-
ently incorrigible neurosis that afflicts the
“progressively” articulate West whenever
anything “Asian” dominates the world
headlines. As a result of this, and the
“loss of nerve” that follows, the ambitions
of a few monks in certain urban centres
of South Vietnam are being almost totally
misinterpreted. The monks understand
this quite clearly; otherwise their religious
leaders when immolating themselves
would not be addressing appeals to Presi-
dent Johnson.
But before exploring what has happened
in South Vietnam, it is very desirable to
underline the fact that the “Buddhist
crisis” is international and not simply
Vietnamese; and that it arises not out of
the exigiencies of the war in Vietnam (ex-
cept in some peculiarities of expression)
but out of the aspirations of the modern
world. The “Buddhist Question” is really
quite simply put: How can the Sangha,
and those laymen who see in the Sangha
the continuance of their fortunes and
traditional culture, survive in the modern
world?
Most of the modern world, and par-
ticularly the undeveloped world, is com-
mitted to a number of aspirations: a sense
of nationhood (all too often defined in
extent by the insouciant Western imperial-
ist mapping pens of yesteryear); to social
and economic betterment as the prime
consideration of State policy; and to
secular, scientifically based education as
the means to achieve the desired end; a
“developed state” able to occupy its pre-
sumedly rightful place in the sun. How
can the Sangha possibly be fitted mean-
ingfully into this program?
It can be a source of comfort to mil-
lions of individuals as individuals in a
rapidly changing world; a source of pride
to those Theravadin Buddhist nations
smarting under a sense of limited achieve-
ment, socially and economically; and a
source of mischief to reactionary groups
concerned with their inherited status.
What it can not do is to participate in
an exemplary sense in the making of
modern societies; and once it ceases to be
exemplary, the Sangha is done for and
the understanding of things it represents
is done for, too. It is all very well for
Buddhist bhikkhus to argue, perhaps
truthfully, that in the Pali scriptures there
lies entombed an adumbration of the
nuclear physics of the modern world; but
the fact is that most of them, as traditional
village educators, are incapable of teach-
ing secondary (or often, primary) school-
children what their governments see as a
necessary modern education. What is
vitally Relevant to their governments is
what is irrelevant to their whole outlook
and often quite beyond their knowledge.
It is perfectly true and it is very
important in understanding what is hap-
pening in South Vietnam—that a Marxist
colleague of former Burmese Premier U
Nu, U Ba Swe, argued that “Marxist
theory is not antagonistic to Buddhist
philosophy. The two are, frankly speak-
ing, not merely similar. In fact, they are
the same in concept.” U Ba Swe went
on to argue, in effect, that whereas Budd-
hism was concerned with liberating men
from this world, Marxism, on a lower
level of understanding, was concerned to.
improve the condition of the world from
which men were to be concerned to liber-
ate themselves. He never seemed to see
that the objectives were likely to be con-
flicting.
But in the Theravadin Buddhist parts
of Asia, the monks are at least descended
from a clearly recognised hierarchy. Their
political ambitions, or attempts to retrieve
their position, may be rudely put down by
a modernist like General Ne Win in
Burma, who, being regarded by small-1
liberals as progressive in a fashion denied
in advance and ipso facto to any leader
who is anti-Communist in Vietnam, can
do as he likes without international indig-
nation.
In Vietnam this is not at all the case.
Buddhism led a kind of symbiotic life
within the Vietnamese Confucian society
in the past on a certain level or it would
by today have lost all its sense of identity.
But it was not Buddhism as separately
such that made Vietnam at all. It was
Confucianism. And the Confucian
mandarinal bureaucracy saw in Buddhism
a potential, sometimes actual threat to
its existence, especially since Buddhism was
often expressed politically in the form of
secret societies; but more generally, and
fundamentally much more importantly,
since Buddhism potentially conflicted in its
teachings with the whole Confucian man-
ner of ordering social affairs.
Malraux was wrong about Buddhism
disintegrating “Asia.” Nevertheless its
teachings can be socially disintegrative
wherever the Order of the monks is not
firmly embedded within a traditional,
hierarchical framework. In Vietnam
Buddhism became syncretistic in outlook
and composed of unstable sects. On the
village level the bonzes undoubtedly en-
joyed popular reverence of a kind. But
the average Vietnamese’s religious under-
standing included, with the Buddha prob-
ably head of the pantheon, Confucius,
and Lao-Tse, the spirits of trees and stones,
the genii of the village communities, and
so on down to their ancestors: a jumble
of religions rather than a clearly defined
Buddhism.
Moreover, Buddhism in any clear form
was never a part of the nationalist move-
ments; nor were people until very recently
indeed labelled Buddhist in any politically
meaningful sense. This comes out very
strongly in Truong Chinh’s “The Resist-
ance Will Win,” the ideological handbook
for the Communist insurrection that was
being planned before the French return
after World War 11. Neither in it nor in
any of the other Communist battle prepa-
rations of this time (and they were
meticulously specific about all necessary
propaganda moves to be made) are these
appeals to Buddhists, though there were
significant appeals to Catholics, “patriotic
landlords,” and so on.
When “the Buddhist Question” suddenly
became an issue in 1963 in a new, politi-
cal form, all the Western observers were
taken very much by surprise; and many
of them were so mesmerised by the
grotesque self-immolations and so dis-
enchanted by Diem’s regime that they and
newspaper readers in the West could not
see that this was a political operation de-
signed to influence Western as well as
Vietnamese opinion a political opera-
tion designed to humiliate and then bring
down Diem. Now there is no doubt what-
soever that Diem’s regime lost its nerve
and its grip on its safety-catches in the


Has
medical science
found the
answer to the
discomfort of the
sore throat?
A unique anti-bacterial throat medica-
tion has been developed . . . acclaimed
as one of the most effective oral treat-
ments of throat infection so far dis-
covered. BAYER GERMANY named
this treatment lversal. Since its release,
luersal has gained wide professional
recognition and acceptance and has
been freely prescribed for the past five
years in Australia, luersal, the anti-
bacterial throat lozenge, contains a
powerful active ingredient Amhazone.
It arrests the growth of haemelytic
streptococci, most commonly the cause
of throat infections.
A sore throat is the result of bacterial
invasion of the mucous membranes
which become aggravated and inflamed.
An luersal lozenge, sucked slowly, does
more than soothe away throat soreness
and relieve painful swallowing, it strikes
deep at the core of the infection.
luersal effectively fights the hurtful
bacteria, accelerates healing, provides
protection against renewed infection.
Yet luersal does not contain a local
anaesthetic; it actually treats the source
of the infection.
For positive relief from the discomfort
of a sore you need pleasant-
tasting luersal, quite safe for the whole
family. Your chemist will he pleased to
supply you.
A handy pack of -20 lozenges (a
complete treatment) individually sealed
in climate-proof foil, 68 cents.
luersal, available from chemists only.
Mv «®« RMany
*’>">•« a, j/,*,.
lversal
Made by
BAYER
= R ) GERMANY
oumer of the reg'd trade mark luersal
Australian Subsidiary & Distributor:
PBA Pharmaceuticals (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Botany, N.S.W.
9£9Zl
F8A38.103
face of this sudden eruption of politically
orientated religious fanaticism. There is
no doubt whatsoever that Diem had
created a non-Communist opposition that
rallied behind the bonzes as a focal point
of clearly expressed unrest; and no doubt
whatsoever that Diem’s reliance upon
militant Catholics (often more because of
their militant anti-Communism and their
higher education than because of their
Catholicism) seemed to thwart other
nationalist channels of expression, some
of them Western democratic in style,
some of them xenophobically “Buddhist”
in a very inadequate formulated fashion.
Later, according to leaders of the National
Liberation Front, Communist cadres
played an important part in leading what
became a kind of urban guerilla war.
N OW ’ while recognising the frustrated
nationalist content of this movement,
and the genuine, if very vague, feeling of
“emotional identification” (as George
Carver called it) with the monks that
Vietnamese at this time of crisis enjoyed,
it is also vitally important to notice the
form of the protest arguments. The bonzes
managed to get world-wide publicity for a
straight lie of a kind directed quite clearly
at the Western world: the cry of “Perse-
cution!” went up. Everyone in South Viet-
nam knew perfectly well that “Buddhism”
was not in any way persecuted (a know-
ledge that was confirmed later in the West
by a United Nations Fact Finding Com-
mission, whose report was oddly seldom
referred to). From an organisational point
of view Buddhists suffered disabilities
under a law of some years’ duration that
was suddenly flourished about; and
Buddhist bonzes, unlike Catholic priests,
were not accepted as military chaplains.
Quite what a Buddhist chaplain, com-
mitted to absolute non-violence toward
living things, says to soldiers going into
battle remains as vague as most of the
aspirations, of the bonzes. But the point
was that the idea of persecution was
strictly for Western consumption; and
deadly effective in the West against Diem.
What is also necessary to recognise
about that time is the strangely moderp
form of the bonzes’ political activity; the
altogether new efficiency with which a
few members of an Order dedicated to
a life of meditation and .mendicancy con-
trolled mobs and created propaganda in
most modern language to the seats of
Western metropolitan power. Western re-
porters again and again expressed their
amazement at this efficiency, but no one
has satisfactorily answered the very im-
portant question: how did they acquire it?
Indeed, I have never even seen the ques-
tion raised. The very experienced Denis
Warner wrote at the time: “Tri Quang (the
best-known political bonze then as now)
and his followers want nothing better than
that they should be arrested, preferably
with the maximum amount of bloodshed,
lor behind them they have shadow organ-
isations and an underground ready to
take over.” (July, 1963.)
Mr. Warner saw no signs of significant,
if any, Communist influence at the higher
levels of the Buddhists’ organisation. “But
since the Vietcong have succeeded in the
past in penetrating almost every other
organisation, including the General Staff,
it would be excessively optimistic to be-
lieve that they are not also covertly active
now amongst the Buddhists.” It would
indeed. At the very least it may be said
that the early life and novitiates of some
of the politically activist bonzes remains
oddly shadowy; and no light has been
thrown clearly on the question of how
they learned their agitprop techniques in
quiet pagodas devoted to the mental
treading of the Path of the Lord Buddha.
In Mr. David “The
Making of a Quagmire,” there occurs an
illuminating passage in which a bonze,
asked if his political activism were not
basically un-Buddhist, replied rather
testily that the monks had a “respon-
sibility” toward the laity while passing
on toward (one hopes) Nirvana, that in-
effable state of bliss which in Mahayana
Buddhism is often popularly referred to
as “another world.” But what kind of
responsibility? Again one comes back to
the heart of the matter. Diem was brought
down and the bonzes had their disabilities
removed and their army chaplaincies
granted. (What chances a chaplaincy
offers to an enrobed Vietcong agitator!)
The “persecution” was ended. What next?
What were the bonzes to say next? What
did they, and what do they today, really
ask for themselves?
It is perfectly true that their agitation for
a widening of the civilian make-up of
the Government has not always been sen-
sibly handled by the Government at pres-
ent in power. But the very organisational
and agitational techniques of these politi-
cally activist bonzes are designed to make
accommodations extremely difficult.
Moreover, even if the motives of the
bonzes are impeccable from an anti-
insurgent point of view, the question still
remains: where do they expect to fit into
a modernising Vietnam? Is it really too
outrageous to suggest that the bonzes who
make the newspaper headlines are chiefly
concerned to discredit and if possible
humiliate the Government in the eyes of
the Western world?
There is no need at all to attribute
Communist or ignoble motives to these
ambitiously turbulent monks, though it is
difficult not to wopder about such possi-
bilities. A desire for peace at any price,
which is, God knows, understandable in
South Vietnam today, or a febrile dream
of politically dominating a “neiitral”
South Vietnam may drive these men on
their way. Nevertheless, objectively
speaking, their activities are deeply sub-
versive of the anti-Communist struggle
both at home and in the West.
The “Buddhist Question” is not one
for secular, modernising governments to
answer by offering endless conciliations to
the political ambitions of a few political
monks; it is something much more pro-
found that can only be answered within
the hearts of the monks themselves. In
the meantime, rather than being toadied
to, they might be invited to consider what
has happened to the Sangha in, respec-
tively, Tibet and Thailand, China and
Ceylon, North Vietnam, and Burma. Some
modernisers are rather more “modernis-
ing” than others.


It takes
5 seconds
(and two fingers)
m
M
to change type faces on the
IBM 72 electric typewriter
Now you can make important points look
important with changeable type styles.
You can use one type style for paragraph
headings, another for text. Or you can
use one type style for personal letters,
another for business correspondence.
This has never before been possible on
the same typewriter.
To change the type style, just change
the typeball. Slip off one typeball, click
the other on. It’s as easy as putting a
cap on a bottle.
Want to emphasise a paragraph head-
ing with a different colour? (There are
nine to choose from.) Just snap in a new
ribbon cartridge with one hand. It’s
sealed in a convenient plastic container.
Your fingers never touch ink.
Call IBM for a demonstration of the
most dramatic advance in typing since
the invention of the typewriter itself.
The world's fastest
typewriter and
the easiest to use.
IBM/72
IBM AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
■
■
NNHi h
MM
IlfP Hii iHt HHI HH Jill HH
lil
«*j » • * * *
B 9 8§ W H'w||
-
18M.55.108.855c


ONE MORE
WEEK
Rather Arch
A LETTER received by us from the pub-
lic relations office of ICI runs: “In a
note of last week I wrote that our Chair-
man and Managing Director has asked to
be known as Sir Archie Glenn, following
his knighthood in the Queen’s Birthday
Honors. He has now asked that he be
addressed as Sir Archibald.”
Which inspired the following verse:
When Sir Archie Glenn
Was addressed by some men
He said I’d rather be called
Archibald.
Meaning
SCIENCE has a language which the lay-
man often cannot understand. However,
there is a case against it borrowing from
everyday speech, as the following notice,
pinned to a board at Sydney University,
makes clear:
5.05 p.m. Physics Colloquium: “The
Impulse Method in Pick-up and Stripping
—Professor S. T. Butler.”
Grub street
A RECENT PAMPHLET of the British
Society of Authors makes melancholy
reading for Australian writers who seem
to believe that overseas markets would
guarantee them Morris-West-sized sales.
The pamphlet follows a survey by
Research Services Ltd. for which 1587
out of 3240 members of the Society of
Authors filled in the questionnaire.
Out of this number, which included
what the Society classified as “primary”
(full-time) and “secondary” (part-time)
authors—and only authors of books, not
writers in other fields only one in six
is earning more than £stg.loso a year.
One in ten earn between £stg.sso and
£stg.loso, but 61 percent earn less than
£stg.6 a week, and as many as one-third
receive about 30/-. The pamphlet also
effectively breaks down the myth that
what you lose on hard-back sales you
make in subsidiary rights. Seventy-one
percent of those who had published bpoks
had earned nothing at all from subsidi-
ary rights.'
What it all comes down to, says the
author of the pamphlet, Richard Find-
later, is that the British public wants, in-
creasingly, to read; it does not, on the
whole, want to pay for reading. Despite
the melancholy tone of the pamphlet,
the Society sees cause for optimism in
the Literature Panel, grafted on to the
Arts Council last year by Miss Jennie
Lee, Britain’s virtual Minister for Culture.
Miss Lee has announced that she is in-
vestigating schemes to ensure writers a
fair return from lending-library borrow-
ings on the same principle that a dramatist
gets a return from every performance
of his play, and in a country where 11
books are lent for every one bought.
Big Jim
KEEN STUDENTS of ideological poly-
centrism in the Communist world may do
well to ponder on the significance of a
recent development Bulgaria has be-
come the first Communist State to bottle
Coca-Cola. The Bulgarians get the secret-
formula concentrate from manufacturers,
add their own water and fizz, and do a
roaring trade in Sofia. Well, that’s their
story anyway.
We couldn’t help feeling that the addi-
tion of Bulgaria to the 130 countries where
Cocoa-Cola sells has given the soft-drink
company’s Chairman of the Board, James
A. Farley, special satisfaction. In Sydney
last week to visit the local subsidiaries of
Coca-Cola, Mr. Farley was pleased to
point out, “The Communists like it, too,
you know.”
But it is Jim Farley, the veteran of
the Roosevelt administration, rather than
James A. Farley, Chairman of the Board,
who makes an hour’s conversation a down-
to-earth briefing on American politics.
Although the public relations handouts
describe him as an “elder statesman” it is
a term which belies the energy and earthi-
ness of the Postmaster-General of the New
Deal. At 78, he speaks from political ex-
perience which goes back 60 years to
when he was elected to the Democrats’
county committee at Stony Point, New
York, before he could vote and continues
today, less directly but just as keenly,
when he attends a $lOOO-a-plate dinner to
boost party funds and is given pride of
place at the same table as Lyndon John-
son. Tall, rosy-cheeked, and shiny-pated,
he reads newspapers omnivorously every-
where he goes, talks to cardinals, poli-
ticians, and business leaders, and retains
his curiosity.
Jim Farley’s specialty is Presidents, and
on his ratings Johnson ranks high. Says
Farley, “Johnson came to the job better
equipped than any President before him.
His knowledge of every phase of govern-
ment is remarkable.” Despite the polls
which claim that President Johnson’s
popularity is falling, Jim Farley believes
that the President has wide enough sup-
port to win again in 1968. “Besides, those
polls are usually about Vietnam,” he said.
“Sure, there are differences, but overall the
President has the support of the nation.”
On the dissent in the academic com-
munity Jim Farley was definite. “There’s
something wrong 1 with the mentality of
professors who can walk out of a ceremony
when the Secretary of Defence is getting
a degree. They’re fuzzy, those professors.
In fact, they’re the fuzziest group in the
country. Some of them will sign anything
against the Government any time.”
His tip for the Republican nomination
in 1968 is a Nixon-Senator Romney
ticket. “Yes, Nixon may be a two-time
loser, but he has the confidence of the
party organisation. Does he want to be
President? Of course. They all do. Dewey
wanted one more try. Nixon does, too.
And if he loses it won’t hurt his law
business.”
The biggest change in American politics-
that Jim Farley has seen, especially since
Kennedy, is that being a Catholic or a
Jew is no longer a bar to becoming Presi-
dent. “Kennedy showed that today a man’s
religion may be disastrous in politics, but
it is no longer fatal,” he said.
Grassroots
THE AUSTRALIAN BALLET last
week held the first of its matinees for
schools during its Sydney season. A couple
of young athletes came on stage and at-
tempted to lift members of the corps de
ballet, but were, of course, put to shame
by male members of the company. “I got
her up there all right, but blimey it’s hard
work,” one of the schoolboys said. The
experiment is designed to show that male
dancers are as tough as athletes. It may
also have shown that ballerinas are not as
fragile as they look.
The joint artistic director of the com-
pany, Miss Peggy van Praagh, rather holds
to the theory that the supposed prejudice
against male ballet dancers in this country
was mostly on economic grounds. “Parents
could hardly see dancing as a steady
livelihood,” she said. “It was all right
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
This would he the only Parliament in
the world that would surrender Par-
liament House to military authority.
Allen Fraser, M.P.
What good are military plans if they
are not classified?
—SEATO director of information Darrell Price.
Modern art is a cliche of the enemies
of religion and not even the sanctity of
marriage is sacred from the so-called
intellectuals.
Chief Justice of N.S.W., Sir Leslie Herron.
How refreshing and encouraging it was
to read the remarks of the Chief Justice,
Sir Leslie Herron, on the enemies of
religion, the inclusion of modern art
among the cliches listed and the pre-
vailing decadence and perversion that
surrounds us today. This is the first time
I have read of anyone seeing danger in
modern art.
Rev. Terrence P. Eglington.
Sir Robert Menzies will have a won-
derful reception here when he is in-
stalled as Lord Warden of the Cinque
Ports.
The Mayor of Deal, Kent, Cr. J. A. Lawson.
I won’t be going to the civic recep-
tion and I don’t think any of the other
Labor councillors will either. This is
not so much anti-Menzies as anti-the
whole thing. We’re not very interested
in Australian politics here.
Leader of the Labor group in the Deal,
Kent, Council, Cr. Tom Vernon.
Professor McCallum starts with a uni-
factoral and reductionist hypothesis.
Associate Professor Henry Mayer.
After eleven engagements and trying
marriage twice, I have decided to give
it away.
Sara Leighton.
Delighted to see your name in the
Honors List.
Duke of Edinburgh to Sir William Dobell.
The consolation of age is that you’re
more aware of other people.
Dame Peggy Ashcroft.


"HUH! TODAYS TEENAGER'S
ALL LOOK THE SAME TO ME
YA CAN'T PICK THE BOYS
FROM THE GIRLS."
for girls to dance for a few years, but
how could a man in such a precarious
occupation support a family? Now we
have six married couples in the Australian
Ballet Company, all of whom can plan
their families and their lives in the reason-
able expectation of steady work. And we
have plenty of good male dancers.”
Members of the company who may be
still up in the air after their overseas
tour, will be brought down to earth
when the company splits up for country
tours in September at the end of the
current capital-city season. One half of
the company will go to Tasmania and
New South Wales.
The company will then discover the
delights of the one-night stand, of tiewly
built theatres, which incredibly have un-
heated dressing-rooms and no running
hot water, and compulsory tea and cakes
with the local cultural groups after the
performance when you are half dead with
fatigue.
But Miss Peggy van Praagh, is all in
favor of a little rigor. “I did it in my
day,” she said, “although that might be
why I’ve got an arthritic hip today. But
it will be a chance for quite a number
of our younger dancers to do solo work.
It has been suggested that we are “short”
of ballerinas, simply because our male
dancers are so strong at the moment. In
fact, we have half a dozen girls ready for
solo work and the country tour will give
them the chance and the experience.”
Miss van Praagh’s other “joint,” Rob-
ert Helpmann, is expected back next
month with firmer plans for new ballets
and also for a visit to Montreal for Expo
’66. “I think we’re going,” Miss van
'Praagh said. “The Prime Minister told me,
‘After all, I have no one else to send.’
Rather back-handed, but reassuring.”
A Closer Look
WESTERN AUSTRALIA has learnt
the hard way the cost of speaking loudly
and carrying a small stick. Dr. Bruce
Davidson’s book “The Northern Myth”
was the pin that pricked the Ord bubble.
Could the same thing happen to many
of the other dreams for the West’s north,
centred on the huge new iron ore finds?
Journalist-author Osanar White is there
right now trying to find out . . . and first
impressions are that the State is being
over-sold to such an extent that, at best,
there will be a reaction.
He got this feeling last year when he
visited the area and discussed it later with
Charles Pick, managing director of pub-
lishers William Heinemann, whose eyes, he
recalls, lit up when western development
was brought up: “The boom psychology
has reached as far as London.” So the
former war correspondent and Melbourne
journalist has been commissioned to write
one, possibly two, books about this region
in the same survey-report style as his
recent “Parliament of a Thousand Tribes”
about New Guinea. “I’m not at all sure
it will be a success story,” he says.
Before going north to test his first re-
actions, he worked for several weeks sniff-
ing around Perth and was impressed, as
others have been, at “the people who are
actively selling this great success story
having private reservations, not at all being
taken in by their own publicity line.”
He believes a number of suppositions
about the inevitability of the northern
snowball have been deliberately fostered
in this way, and without solid grounds.
For example, originally and that’s
less than two years ago there were
to have been five ports with all the de-
velopments that go with them. Now, with
the Port Hedland rationalisation plus
Dampier, there will be only two, colossal
though these will be.
Osmar White questions the Govern-
ment’s ability to .make the iron ore groups
live up to their promises. “They will be
in a position to plead that world market
conditions have changed,” he says, “and
having succeeded in offering their bait
they will try to chicken out. In fact, it’s
only good business to do so.”
Stressing his conviction that “the
potential for prosperity is enormous,” he
feels it could crash by political misman-
agement. And if he confirms these doubts
over the next few weeks, it will all go
down in the book that should appear
about this time next year.
Psymptomania
Please, Doctor,
when will science tackle
the hypochondriacal?
how aid
a painful masquerade?
You tell me this pain is psychosomatic
Then why is a non-pain so emphatic?
Its pstabblings come but never go
just hang around imbroglio.
A hopeless state of hypochondria
when a quandary just, keeps getting
quandria.
It’s full of alarms,
Is it legs, throat, back, heart, or arms?
It’s capricious
it’s unbeatable
whether it’s hereditary or adventitious
is debatable.
Please, Doctor,
Psychosoma’s a great big ache
and no one’s prepared to give and tache,
it’s only half a fache
for goodness’ sache.
The plain fact is
Doctors psneer at psychosemantica
Perhaps I’m pedantic but they’re pedantica .
I may tell lies but theirs are gigantica.
Than psychosemantica nothing hurts worse
please get ready the horse and hearse
I’m in a coma
with psychosoma
and many another delirious misnoma.
Doctor,
you say I’ve a touch of psychosomia
that it needs no cure and it’s kind of homict
If my fear’s flimsy
your facts are flimsia
If I have whimsy
then you’ve got whimsia
and your degrees are greesia.
Doctor, dear, how can you prove
my disease is psychosomatic
and really not, even at one remove,
rhomatic?
or endocrinal?
or something spleenal?
Or is it perhaps romantica?
say a broken heart?
Here, take one part —
can’t you hear its beating growing frantica?
Please, Doctor,
I’ve all the psymptoms
of psychosama,
I’m a hypocritic
somapsychitic.
It’s a psad but true,
adieu, adieu,
how fittis
Nunc Dimittis.
Please, Doctor,
my pain is psychosomatic,
I think it’s the basement when it’s the attic,
it’s not at the top but down at the bottom.
If your diagnosis
says psychosis
then the germs are about and I’ve gottom.
Is it my foot or is it my cranium?
am I mad or am I sanium?
In corpore sano mens sana
-—or Hse Nirvana.
PAT FLOWER


A LW Scraper at work on the Bolivar Sewerage Project, Salisbury, S.A
LW
r
PUll
V .MV**
WITH DIE MIGHT 01
LW
Made in Australia by engineers with years of on-the-job know-how,
mighty LW Tournapull Self-Loading Scrapers are backed by the
highly specialised technical services of the world-wide Le
Tourneau-Westinghouse organisation. You will find them coping
with the toughest jobs from the tropics to the snow country
throughout the Commonwealth and overseas.
To mention just a few of the many projects on which Australian-
made Tournapull Self-Loading Scrapers are constantly employed:—
■ COAL STOCKPILING, N.S.W. ■ HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
AND MAINTENANCE, THAILAND, MALAYSIA AND THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND ■ AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION,
NEW GUINEA ■ HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IN SINGAPORE AND
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
m
E tor EXPORT
Only eorthmoving equipment manufacturer ta receive
the Award far Outstanding Export Achievement.
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINGHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities in all States.
LW248.106


An Exhibition of Paintings
GARRY SHEAD
6 p.m, Wednesday June Ist
WATTERS GALLERY
397 Liverpool Street
Darlinghurst. 31 2556
Hours.. Tues.to Sat.lo a.nv-5 p.m
Wed. 10 a.m. to 9 p.m
Closed Sun. Mon.
WAHROONGA LADY
IN HER NAKED LUNCH
by CRAIG McGREGOR
Garry Shead is our first painter-celebrant of
suburbia. We have had terrace house paint-
ers before, of course; but I have always
thought that they were attracted more by the
picturesqueness of those terraces, their
suitability for formal, traditional composition,
than by the life that was lived in them; Garry
Shead is really more concerned with the
people who have showers, eat and make love
in those houses than with the buildings
themselves. And anyhow he is celebrating
a different kind of suburbia, the Wahroonga
Killara-Pymble wealthbelt. This is the
whisky-and-soda, two-car, three-dachshund
one-kid section, of Sydney suburbia, with
Church on Sundays, the Herald in the morn-
ing, lunch at the Bistro, dinner at home, a
snooze and a snort, don't forget the Scott-
Thompsons on Saturday night dear, and the
Liberal Party ladies' committee on Tuesday,
with the nearest pub the Greengate (and God
knows we try never to go there). It's surpris-
ing or is it? that so many of what
Australian Vogue so charmingly calls our
Youthquakers have come from such a back-
ground: Richard Walsh, Gordon and Barker;
Richard Neville, Mosman and Knox; Martin
Sharp, Bellevue Hill and Cranbrook; Garry
Shead, Pymble and Shore.
The upper-middle class explosion. They’ve
all had something worth rebelling against;
and Shead paints that backcloth, that liver
brick stockbroker-belt between-wars bour-
geoisdom, with appalling accuracy: those
rows of bungalows with their blinded eye-
holes of windows and castrated lawns and
Wunderlich tiles, those North Shore Line,
hedges and red pebble paths and Old
Country flowerbeds, those stolid double-
storey mansions with fake Roman arches
and a maid in the pantry and electric lights
burning in hallways of permanent gloom.
But he's done more than that. In front of all
those blank-stare houses he's painted nude
adorable creatures with wiry black pubic
hair and posy pink nipples and clyds—
dale flanks who lie flaunting their nakedness
on respectable front lawns or flash bare
belbes and bums from Khartoum Avenue
footpaths. And even when there aren't any
nudes mid-Victorian women with huge hats
and hourglass figures saunter down the
driveway or fake-front houses take on an
almost Shakespearean grandeur (“I always
feel that almost anything could happen in
those houses, that you could have a Hamlet
there," Garry says). In one painting a striped
nude sits squatly alone on an acre of well-
cropped lawn; in another a pink-and-white
couple writhe and copulate in naked sun-
shine beneath a bower of spring-ripened
flowers, Arcadia in Pymble Park. These
nudes are a standing (or lying) affront to
suburbia, brazen bawds and haystack
hussies outraging the sober citizenry with
a lust of flesh and bounce of buttock. How
dare they! If you lie there, lady, you’ll get
yourself shaven with a Victa mower. Hullo,
is that Chatswood Police Station? I want to
report that something very strange is going
on in our front garden . . .
And yet, of course, they are not just an
affront. They are part of suburbia. This is the
girl who lives next door, this is the girl who
lives down the street, this is our daughter.
These are the Abbotsleigh girls with lovely
accents who fornicate freely on three stcry
front lawns get laid in the back of Minis
swallow sex with senior prefects and place
asprin in mummys ovulen box. The
school or the suburb doesn’t make much
difference: Ravenswood, Gordon, P.L.C.
Sceggs, one back seat's the same as ano-
ther (though M.Gs are difficult and un-
comfortable, sprites are impossible except
the Italian way), you can go through on the
lawn when the turn’s over and on the settee
if Mummy's away, and axminster pile is
best (though it stains). Like upper-caste
groups anywhere Sydney's North Shore is
properly promiscuous, pill-freed from fear,
and while the Scott-Thompsons enjoy their
breakfast their daughter lies with legs
apart to receive the horny benediction
which they too once knew but forgot.
More goes on behind those liver-brick walls,
sweet Yorick, than Barry Humphries ever
dreamt of.
They think themselves rebels, these ladies.
But they are all part of the play. They, too,
will come to live in those tile-and-hedge
houses, sleep in rooms with wedding photo-
graphs in frames (and Shead paintings on
the wall to show they’re different), eat, shave
quarrel, copulate, act out their de Sade
desires and Hamlet fears, grow old, get
shocked when they find their own children
doing at 12 what they waited a respectable
15 for. The Northern Suburbs Crematorium,
with its million brass plaques and oil-fired
chimney smoke, awaits them. I love them all,
even their houses. If I could wish them eter-
nal life, I would. But Garry Shead has already
done that for them.
The North Shore, Plain and Fancy
Biology and economics make suburbanites of us all
By ROSS CAMPBELL
A GOOD many other people must be
approaching, as I am, their Party
Sex Segregation Disapprobation
Screaming Threshold. The Germans would
have a word for this. It is the state of
mind you get into after reading 1653
brilliant, searching studies of Australian
mores in which attention is drawn to the
fact that at parties the men stay at one
end of the room and the women at the
other. You feel that if you read one more
spare-time sociologist’s reproaches on this
subject you may lose control and shout
rude words.
Incidentally, the phenomenon referred
to is rapidly' growing obsolescent. Men
of the middle classes, stung by these
repetitive taunts, are going to the other
extreme. At social gatherings they mingle
with the female guests so enthusiastically
that they often incur suspicion of being
satyrs.
The long-delayed open season for ex-
cavation of Australian folkways is upon us
with a vengeance. From every incoming
aeroplane there debouches a squad of do-
it-yourself de Tocquevilles intent on delv-
ing into our collective psyche. At the same
time our local thinkers have developed
a mood of guilty, breast-beating intro-
spection; while entertainers on the stage
and television screen devote their talents
to lampooning the manners and customs
of this ineffably ludicrous continent.
Small wonder that a growing number
of citizens look back with nostalgia to
the receding days when Australians were
innocently benighted, when nobody at
home or abroad cared a damn about our
national character, and satire and split-
level houses and agonised self-appraisal
wer e yet unheard of. In retrospect, there
i s even a primitive charm about the old
s j x o’clock 0 ’ c l oc k swill. It was barbaric but it
was somet hi n g all our own No doubt
there are Fijians who recall their countlVs
cannibalist i c past with a similar pe rver 'se
affection
’ .
t^ie critical scrutinies of Australian
society being undertaken by the legion of
inquisitors, one thing looms as a subject
°f almost universal disapproval and des-
pondency. It is the stultifying influence of
suburban life. The suburbs are held to
blame for the dullness, the philistinism,
the complacency, the lack of protest, the
aesthetic apathy and intellectual sloth
which, everyone agrees, are typically and
uniquely Australian characteristics.
The theme has been taken up in many
variations and moods ranging from the
feline mockery of Barry Humphries
through the lofty disdain of James Morris
to the sombre profundities of Patrick
White. The latest anti-suburban manifesto,
and the one which stirred me to offer
these comments, is an exhibition of paint-
ings by the young artist Garry Shead, who
was reared in the upper or fancy section
of Sydney’s notorious North Shore Line.
Mr. Shead’s pictures display a background
of stately homes in the Pymble-Killara
region, in front of which nude females
disport themselves with varying degrees of
impropriety.
The significance of these works is ex-
pounded, with careful attention to
anatomical and physiological detail, in an
essay by Craig McGregor printed on the
catalogue. We learn from this that both
Mr. Shead and his swinging Ruskin, Mr.
McGregor, believe North Shore society to
consist of u two cl^ sses: °?*\ one and
parents, who are distinguished by a stupe-
fying bourgeois conventionality, and on the
other hand their sons and daughters, who
are g a y re bels engaging in practically non-
stop" sexual athletics. This boyish day-
dream, I think, deviates considerably from
the facts. But before returning to the sub-
jcct let us consider for a moment what
Australian suburbs are made of.
Because of the way our cities have
developed, most of the inhabitants live
in a suburb of some kind. If you have
children it is very inconvenient to live
anywhere else, even if you would prefei
t - The high-density. inner districts, of
which Kings Cross is an outstanding
example, are populated mostly by bache-
l°rs °f both sexes, temporary visitors, and
couples without children,
A common sequence is what could be
called the Lane Cove-Kings Cross-Black-
town flight pattern. Unmarried suburban
sons and daughters fly the coop an d set
themselves up in high-density bachelor
independence. Following this move, indeed
largely because of it, they find themselves
changing into parents. Thereupon they


More about Air Marketing:
L■ ■ ,
V
When you import,
you pay for the shipping.
You have the right to
demand the best kind.
PA\
/VIVE
Don’t depend on your supplier to pick the type of
shipping that will do you the most good. Specify
Pan Am, find out how profitable Air Marketing is.
Get delivery—in a matter of hours, not weeks—
from all 6 continents by Pan Am Jet. We’re
responsible all the way. Cut your inventories
drastically. Save big money on warehousing. Place
your orders only when you know there’s a demand,
and don’t get stuck if an item turns sluggish.
Buy where the bargains are—anywhere in the
world. Re-order right up to the last minute to
make short selling seasons longer. Set fashion
trends or introduce other new items . . . something
you can do with almost no risk only with
Air Marketing.
Air Marketing slashes these costs, too: packing,
crating, insurance, paperwork, inland transporta-
tion, damage and pilferage.
We can even help you find new Air Marketing
minded suppliers the world over through our
World-Wide Marketing Service. Find out how.
Call your Pan Am Cargo Agent or call us.
World’s largest air cargo carrier*World’s most experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST ’ROUND THE WORLD
SYDNEY: KINGSFORD-SMITH AIRPORT. 67 1384 • MELBOURNE: SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL. 63 9077
PASI4


F
Mgfr £*(*%*&
**«<>■*’
w
mxesa*
w.
Cinzano Vermouth is a great party drink; fashionable, and
not expensive. Superb in cocktails, it's utterly enjoyable
straight and very cold, "on-the-rocks,” or with a little
soda. Add a professional touch by serving ■ —
CINZANO SWEET (red) with a lemon peel
CINZANO EXTRA DRY with an olive
CINZANO BIANCO (sweet white) with a cherry
CINZANO AMARO (pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
House Founded 1757
MttS&ssao«
Cinzano. Birmingham Street. Alexandria, N.S.W., lor
"Have a farl/' lolder.
Write
return to suburbia, but in many cases
being short of money they have to go
farther out than the place they came from.
This destiny, determined by biology and
economics, overtakes all sorts of Austra-
lians, whether sporty or studious, extro-
vert or introvert, admirers of Dostoevsky
or of Don Lane. One result is that the
human composition of most suburbs is
more varied than satirists and essayists
find it convenient to admit.
The place where I live is on the lower
or plain section of the Sydney North Shore
Line, and the people with whom I am
acquainted there include a milk vendor,
an oboist, a wharfie, a management con-
sultant, a solicitor, a railway porter, and
so on. Some of the residents talk and
behave as if they were characters in a
Mavis Bramston skit; others belong to a
dramatic society which performed (albeit
with limited success) Sartre’s No Exit. If
asked to define the nature of this suburb
I would not know where to start.
With the reputedly affluent upper
North Shore Line, which is Garry Shead’s
terrain, I am less familiar. But occasional
intrusions there do not verify the simple,
romantic picture presented by this artist
and his exegete. One finds that some of
the ratepayers are not affluent, and that
some of them are by no means stupid;
also that their sons and daughters are
not usually the blithe orgiasts evoked in
Mr. McGregor’s priapic prose, but are
likely to be hesitant young persons beset
with exams and unrequited love and the
other problems endemic to their age and
condition.
This aloofness from the complexity of
real life, exemplified in the Shead-
McGregor lark, is frequent in satirical
treatment of the Australian suburbs. The
theme is not approached in an empirical
way, but is simplified according to the
artist’s preconceptions. On another level
of seriousness, Patrick White deserves full
credit for having lived in the Sarsaparilla
region, presumably an uncongenial
environment, and studied it at first hand.
Yet the picture that emerges from his
writings is almost as schematic, in its
way, as the Shead-McGregor vision. The
inhabitants tend to be either uncouth
peasants or holy outsiders. Children are
rarely sighted, though in reality they are
a conspicuous part of the suburban scene;
they are the main reason for its exis-
tence.
The growth of intense anti-suburban
sentiment seems to be a peculiarly Austra-
lian thing. In other countries where
suburbs are less taken for granted, living
there is often considered a privilege and
a reward of success. The prosperous New
Yorker makes his home in Westchester
County. One way of discovering the ad-
vantages of suburban life is to spend a
short time in the grim and frightening
purlieus of high-density Manhattan or
Brooklyn.
At the risk of appearing cloddish, I con-
fess to feeling that some Australian suburbs
are very pleasant. The slumbrous Hunter's
Hill of pre-boom days, for example, was
an enchanting Virgilian retreat with rivers
flowing beneath ancient walls. Even now,
after an expressway has sliced it and de-
velopers have subdivided bits of it, some
of that quality remains.
I don’t suggest we should be altogether
happy about the suburbanised structure of
our cities. It keeps people apart, and while
this is physically comfortable (except
on the transport side) it reduces the fre-
quency of mental contacts and inhibits
social sparkle. We have a built-in problem
here and do not look like beginning to
solve it.
But satirists and others should disabuse
themselves of the idea that by inveighing
against suburbia they are attacking any
particular type or class of people. Suburbia
is everybody, because it is part of the re-
productive process. To be consistent, anti-
suburban satirists should abuse and ridicule
Australians for their fertility. This line of
thinking is, I suspect, often implicit in
the attitude. In the Shead-McGregor
onslaught on Wahroonga, one can discern
a basic resentment that the youthful frolics
they celebrate should lead ultimately to
the depressing situation where baby makes
three.
I would be interested in the findings
of a writer who could tell us what really
goes on in, say, Wahroonga, exploring
the subtle conflicts, the tragic and comic
intricacies of those decorous streets. Eng-
land has its Elizabeth Taylors and Pene-
lope Mortimers to do this kind of job,
but we haven’t. One reason we haven’t
is that our bright people know in advance
exactly what goes on in any Australian
suburb. There are all these dreadful bores
giving parties, you see, with the men at
one end of the room and the women at
the other. .


Does your duplicator
accept paper'stencils'
costing only a few
pennies?
Does your duplicator pro-
duce well printed decimal
stationery and literature as
well as copy duplicating?
Does your duplicator give
up to 50,000 copies using
the thinnest film of con-
centrated ink costing only
$1.35 a pound?
m
40
WiHKKi
I
O
I
:
*
Does your duplicator
accept any kind of paper
and give top quality results
on all weights and
textures ?
Does your duplicator do all this?
Unless you have an offset duplicator it is
unlikely. The Rotaprint R 75 offset dup-
licator can save its initial cost in a few
months even working at low output. It
prints and duplicates the R 75 is two
machines in one. Phone your local Rem-
ington office ask for a demonstration
at any time to suit your convenience.
for Rotaprint
REMINGTON RAND-THE LARGEST BUSINESS EQUIPMENT ORGANISATION IN THE WORLD
Sydney 2-0925 • Melbourne 69-0660 • Brisbane 5-4651 • Adelaide 8-4631 • Launceston 2-2358 • Hobart 2-2886 • Perth 23-2281 • Canberra 4-0885
RR 488


AROUND MELBOURNE
Another Encore for the Square Dance
Melbourne is indulging in its
famous square dance. This is
something we do every six
months or so. We have an inferiority
complex. Most great cities have a
square, so we feel that we ought to
have one. Adelaide has a square. Lon-
don has Trafalgar Square and Moscow
has its great Red Square.
Nobody has defined precisely why
we want one. We have no famous body
to entomb and we are not the type
of people who like to sit in the city
and contemplate life. We have some
of the world’s most beautiful parks
but they go incredibly unused. Come
early evening we have to hurry home
to watch the football shows on TV.
The square dance has been going
on for 110 years. Here’s a leader taken
from the Melbourne “Morning Her-
ald” for March 15, 1856: “It never
seems to have occurred to those nar-
row-minded, stupid land-measurers, who
probably laid out this grid-iron scheme
of the City of Melbourne to save thejn-
selves trouble, that in a great city
people might sometimes require to cross
it diagonally and that health as well
as beauty and magnificence would be
consulted by the formation of a few
squares and circuses. There should be
at least one grand place in the centre
of the town, around which might have
been arranged the public buildings.”
Actually, in 1856 there was a fear-
ful controversy over a square. There
was a bid to build Parliament House
where St. Patrick’s Cathedral now
stands and the idea was that it should
be associated with a splendid square. It
came to nought. We nearly got a
square in the ’sixties, but the Council
was composed almost entirely of pub-
keepers and it w'ould have meant the
demolition of too many pubs.
In 1887, Mr. N. Barnett, a city
architect, had a grand idea. Take away
the Spring Street buildings in front of
Parliament House and construct a
square to celebrate the Jubilee of Queen
Victoria. This idea was remodelled to
commemorate the death of Queen Vic-
toria. By the time it was too late to
remember the good Queen, it was re-
modelled again to remember the soldiers
who died in World War I, and so
in 1918 was born the Anzac Square
scheme. Nothing really got going until
1926 when the “Herald” staged a great
debate. It fought for the Anzac Square
scheme as opposed to a Shrine of Re-
membrance in the Domain.
There were two hotels on the corners
of Bourke and Spring Streets. The
proposal was to pull these down, create
a square, and put an obelisk in the
centre of the intersection.
All sorts of people were called in
for comment. Sir John Longstaff
approved, the Premier, Mr. Allan, ap-
proved, even Dr. Mannix approved.
Then it was decided it wasn’t am-
bitious enough. They would take all
the land between Exhibition Street,
Spring Street, Little Collins, and Little
Bourke Streets at a cost of £1,396,100.
This would have meant the departure
of the Windsor Hotel, Princess Theatre,
White Hart and Imperial Hotels, Sal-
vation Army Citadel, and some of our
nicest restaurants. The scheme also in-
cluded putting that dome on Parliament
House, but Sir Frank Clarke objected:
“It would be like trying to improve
the Parthenon.”
Ah, but Sir John Monash was in
favor of a shrine in the Domain and
the feeling developed that Melbourne
could get its square any time. The more
fitting memorial was the building in
the Domain, so on went the square
dance.
Post Second World War our corres-
pondent has counted at least 25 differ-
ent proposals. Anzac Square has come
up many times, except that they don’t
call it Anzac Square any more. Perhaps
we might keep it for the Queen Eliza-
beth Jubilee. At the turn into the ’sixties
"A civic square! It’s about time
they gave us somewhere to demon-
strate against them.”
we were offered two splendid, easily
obtainable sites the Eastern and
Western markets, but there was the
horror of the* loss of good ratable land.
There have been sites proposed in
Latrobe Street, Spring Street, in Flin-
ders Street between the Queens and
Kings Bridges. In April, 1960, an in-
genious scheme came forward. The
Commonwealth Bank would acquire
six properties in Flinders Street, oppo-
site St. Paul’s Cathedral, an area of
130 x 160 ft. The Young and Jackson’s
block (100 x 60) would be sold back
to the City Council for a square.
The idea was very strong for a time,
but somehow it never took off. Per-
haps nobody could quite bring them-
selves to the destruction of such a
sacred monument as Young and Jack-
son’s Hotel. Although the Common-
wealth Bank could always have pur-
chased Chloe and placed her over
the teller’s window.
What else? There have been moves
to form squares in Swanston Street by
pulling down Town Hall Chambers,
in Collins Street by moving the Bap-
tist Church, a square in Elizabeth Street
on the old tin-shed site and there was
even a suggestion that we should move
St. Paul’s Cathedral up near St. Pat-
rick’s Cathedral. No doubt this would
have greatly assisted the ecumenical
movement, but the Anglican Church
did not enthuse. There was a proposal
for a six-acre square with the roofing
of the Jolimont yards and rebuilding
of Flinders Street station. We did
eventually get a small elevated plaza,
but, not a real square.
Now the dance is moving in earnest.
Whelan the Wrecker has destroyed the
dear old Victoria Buildings and Queen’s
Walk (opposite the Town Hall,) at
the corner of Swanston and Collins
Streets. Anytime during the previous
year the Council could have bought
the site, but it couldn’t make the awful
decision. Now that the English Ham-
merson group is about to build a 16-
storey office building, the Council feels
that it might like the site for a square
after all.
Hard negotiations are now taking
place. However, last year, the Ham-
merson group rejected a Council offer
of $1,900,000 and now they want some-
think like $2,500,000. Furthermore,
shipowners in Swanston Street are cry-
ing out in pain.
So you see, after 110 years, it might
be too early to take the dangerous step
of creating a square. Although it is true
that we need an open space where we
can congregate to protest against
activities of the Melbourne City Coun-
cil.
BATMAN


«l# i
Schimmelpenninck
Duet
(Actual size)
now available individually
cellophane wrapped in packs of 5,
tins of 10 and barrels of 25.
Schiirnnelpenninck
CIGARS
Holland’s
finest cigars -
fast becoming
Australian
favourites
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars
are imported for your pleasure by
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.) Ltd.
sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V.
Wageningen Holland.
RPM 218
THE OTHER SEX
Jam yesterday, jam tomorrow
IN all the talk that
has gone on
lately on the
subject of women
working, the real
issues that career
women (at least the
married ones) are
concerned with have
not been aired. For
them, questions of
equal pay, the pro-
motion ladder, and
the disinclination of the taxation commis-
sioner to allow a housekeeper as a tax
deduction, real though they may be, are
not what keeps them wide-eyed in the
small hours of the night.
And in the lulls at the conference table,
the successful career woman is .more likely
to be trying out a trompe I’oeil effect in
the hall . . . out-entertaining Kerr with
sweetbreads flambe or dreaming of a jam-
making binge rather than planning the
next move in the marketing game. But
while her trained mind and general expert-
ise may see her through the problems of
decoxating and social entertaining, the
simple homecraft of jam-making can de-
flate her ego quicker than anything she
faces in the cominercial world.
For a woman who can get a trial bal-
ance out at the first attempt or toss off
a conveyancing order, it’s a bit humiliat-
ing to push a bit of embryonic jam around
a saucer and find it won’t WRINKLE.
The wrinkle test is used at a vital stage
in jam-making and determines whether
you end up with jam, a nasty candied
mess, or a mixture that drips.
The whole business of jam-making
demonstrates the way women keep other
women, i.e., working women, outside the
magic circle, and therein lies the story of
the secret society of jam-makers. Similar
tales may be told of the Craft of Scone-
makers, the Pavlova Club, or the Ancient
Society of the Steak-and-Kidney Pudding.
There is, of course, a very big difference
between following a recipe, logically ex-
plained by Graham Kerr or Robert Car-
rier, and attempting one of those key-
stones of Anglo-Australian culinary art
such as jam-, scone- or pavlova-making
which are part of the oral tradition of
cooking.
The jam saga might begin one morn-
ing when a husband, biting into his break-
fast toast, says: “Why can’t we get some
decent marmalade for a change?”
Wife: “But, darling, we’ve tried all the
marmalades at the supermarket and you
said you liked this one.”
Husband: “Well, I may have said it was
better than that awful sweet stuff we had
last week.’’
Wife: “I’m sorry, dear, would you like
some honey . . .”
Husband: “No, it doesn’t matter. I sup-
pose I have to put up with it, but why
I don’t know ... we used to have decent
marmalade . . .”
Wife: “But that was home-made. Re-
member, your mother used to make it for
us.” „
Husband (being patiently reasonable):
“Ah, well, I suppose we can’t have every-
thing ...”
Then the fatal words are spoken. The
wife, assailed by self-doubt, seeing herself
a failure in the home, not a real woman,
rises to the bait and says she will make
some marmalade.
The following Saturday, when she had
intended to catch up on the latest law
review or some other after-hours profes-
sional chore, the little woman is up and
about. While she might have momentary
doubts as to her staying power, when
actually faced with a case of grapefruit
she has no warning of the psychological
downfall contained in the seemingly
simple written recipe.
For the fact of the matter is that those
simple recipes for ja,m, making scones,
and other traditional home arts are not
what they seem to be. The true women
know that they are just reminders of
quantities and traps for the unwary.
The real knowledge of jam-making is
imparted in a quite different way. In the
dim, grey stretches of the housewife’s day
between the end of the midday movie
and when the kids come home from
school, the secret art is handed on. Over
innumerable cups of Nes the oldies tell
the young wives the tricks of jam-making,
the tricks the working woman never hears
while she is off in her office earning her
place in the commercial world.
S™. thinks that reasonable intelligence
will see her through. But what happens
when she faces up to instructions as these?:
To test whether the ja,m is cooked, dip
in spoon, hold above the pot, and see if
the jam falls in irregular drops.
I know of one intelligent woman who
stood for one hour beside her bubbling
cauldron and dipped her spoon at least
50 times, and each time she got a different
result. Needless to say, the jam was a mess.
After a decent interval and full of hope
again, she decides to try again, this time
with a recipe given by a friend (house-
wife), who says: “Do exactly what the
recipe says and you don’t have to test.
You just take it off one hour after you
start cooking.” Hopes were dashed when
the marmalade turned out all runny.
A post-mortem with friend revealed
that the working woman cooked the jam
with the lid on! As even the most junior
member of the jam society knows, this
is never done. But, of course, it’s not the
sort of thing mentioned in the recipe. And
so it goes on, unwritten laws you are sup-
posed to know cut you off from success,
until in the end, three cases of fruit
wasted, the cupboards full of jammy
messes the family won’t eat, she gives up
and some time later, if she has enough of
these experiences, she gives up work, too.
Victory to the secret society of jam-makers.
ESTA HANDFIELD


Toyota Lite Stout
is the tough 1-ton truck
you’ve been looking for
to replace that
'passenger-car’ utility:
a
£3*
is
A
D
vm•HTn&iW'Pr"*
Now get your money’s worth with TOYOTA Lite
Stout genuine one ton utility with a real truck
chassis plus the kind of rugged toughness that
no other manufacturer has been able to match:
TOYOTA TOUGHNESS.
COMFORT: EASY HANDLING
Great comfort for three in the big panoramic
view cab. Lite Stout sports a column gear shift and
other passenger car niceties like light steering
and easy handling but underneath there’s a real
truck chassis. It’s all toughness and no “ber-
pardons.”
MUSCLE : PULLING POWER : 28 M.P.G.
74 horsepower gives you lots of muscle to pull
the big loads easily and a rugged 4-speed truck
gearbox to match it. You’ll get up to 28 miles
to the gallon because there’s no wasted power.
SIMPLE: EASY TO SERVICE : RELIABLE
Lite Stout has the incredible reliability that
comes from simple, no-nonsense design. It’s
built to sound, tried and proven ideas. When
you lift the bonnet you see nothing you haven't
seen before. It’s easier to work on and service
than any vehicle you've known.
BEST YET FOR SPECIAL BODIES
You’re seeing them everywhere! With Lite
Stout’s extra load carrying ability and truck
chassis, it’s the most popular basic unit for
special bodies for many a long day. This tough
one-tonner is being converted to every known
delivery van use for bread, dry cleaning,
removing, department stores, carriers you
name it sofne have even been used for
refrigerated vans. Flat top model is especially
good for conversion to covered milk delivery
trucks.
Pictured here is the Lite Stout all-steel utility.
There’s also a standard drop-side wooden tray
and a flat top wooden tray up to 50 square feet
of carrying space!
SERVICE : SALES : PARTS:
Lite Stout is backed by an efficient network of
dealers throughout Australia. Look for
this authorised Sales & Service Sign—
it's your guarantee of the service and
parts that have helped to make Toyota
famous.
TOYOTA
Go TOYOTA and get your money’s worth!
%/ •/ LSPC.FPB
"SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS AND DISTRIBUTORS. THIESS (SALES) PTY. LIMITED, HAYES ROAD, ROSEBERY, N.S.W."


Send all Republicans to Russia
THE PRIVATIONS OF A PRINCE
THE SUFFERER: “Couldn’t somebody, at any rate, call the dog away? I'm getting damp socks!”
From The Bulletin, June 3, 1920, during the visit of the Prince of Wales, now Duke of Windsor.
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
IN this country unofficial people giving
voice to opinions on public affairs
are usually denounced by politicians
(of all parties) and members of the vari-
ous makeshift establishments as “pseudo-
intellectuals” or “so-called intellectuals.”
This continues, despite the well-known
fact that any good Australian professor,
newspaper editor, scientist, or writer will
strenuously object to being called an
intellectual, let alone call himself one.
Another term of abuse fashionable of late
is “so-called poet,” used of writers who
have published several volumes of verse
and who are modestly following some-
where behind Milton, Byron or Shelley
in voicing their private opinions about
public matters.
Some curious facts about intellectuals
and non-intellectuals, and even poets,
have come out of the present controversy
over Australia and the Monarchy. On the
various occasions during the past few
years when this issue has been raised, I
have thought that, apart from the
loyalties of hard-core conservatives, the
subject was of more interest to intellectu-
als than to ordinary people. (One is be-
devilled by terminology; lots of “intellec-
tuals” are very ordinary people, whereas
lots of “ordinary people” are not only
extraordinary in one way or another, but
often extremely intellectual as well. Per-
haps one could use the term “professional
intellectuals.”) It is, after all, the classic
function of professional intellectuals, how-
ever abused for their pains, to make people
think about issues of importance, and
presumably the identity of the Head of
our State is an issue of importance.
In April I gave a lecture to the Fabian
Society in Melbourne on “Britain in Aus-
tralia.” I returned home to South Aus-
tralia to find that the evening newspaper,
the “News,” had based its headline and
its poster on some of my criticisms of the
institution of the Monarchy. “Why should
we honor a Queen on the other side of
the world?” I had asked, and in answer
a flood of letters poured into the “News.”
An extra dam or two was breached by
a “News” interview with Brigadier
Eastick, local head of the RSL, who said
that thousands of Australian servicemen
had died for royalty and that I should
be sent to Russia where I belonged
To my surprise, the great majority of
letters received supported me, and many
referred to Brig. Eastick’s comments as
“intolerant,” “smearing,” or “what rot!”
One suggested: “The consolation prize of
a framed photo of the Warden of the
Cincjue Ports must, however, go to Brig.
Eastick, in recognition of his anaemic and
amusing criticism of Mr. Dutton.
There were many letters from ex-
servicemen who said they had fought for
their families and homes and country,
not for misplaced loyalty or the preserva-
tion of an anachronism. One summed
things up by asking, “Why should we give
allegiance to a person who is not an Aus-
tralian, does not reside in Australia, is not
elected by the people, and holds office by
virtue of no personal achievement of her
own?”
On the other side, two anonymous North
Adelaide correspondents took me to task
for being disloyal, one calling me an “in-
tellectual” and the other a “so-called in-
tellectual.” A lady from Elizabeth Vale
wrote: “I see Mr. Dutton’s skin is white,
Therefore, he is not a true Australian, so,
please, where did Mr. Dutton’s ancestors
come from? Was it Russia? Anyway, he
ought to be deported there.”
What has reall surpr i se d me since then,
and since later xv programs on the
Monarchy, and the publication of “Aus-
tralia and the Monarchy ;’ has bee n the
number f times th eo le have
i,™ with me While
. . , , , ' ,
1 was wait > n § the other day to cross the
street at the traffic lights in Adelaide,
a total stranger said to me, Thank the
Lord someone has said it at last. The
man in the tobacconists said, I agreed
with every word you said. When I was
buying some fishing gear the proprietor
said, Good on you, mate, I m one of your
mob. The man at the fruit-barrow said,
“You’d be just about the most notorious
bloke in town. I’m with you. Mind you,
I’ve nothing against the English. They’re


welcome to keep their Queen. But what’s
she to you or me?”
On the other side, of course, there have
been plenty of people who predictably
disagreed with me. 1 would not have ex-
pected otherwise. But what was not pre-
dictable was the extent and enthusiasm
of popular support for what at this stage
I had thought to be an issue for intel-
lectuals. In five years’ time, I had thought,
the people might be ready. But it seems
a lot of them are ready now.
Not so, however, many professional
intellectuals. These men and women of
ideas have responded with a yawn and
that classic excuse of the procrastinator,
“What a bore! It doesn’t really matter
anyway. Let’s talk about something im-
portant.” Well, if the Monarchy is a bore
and of no account, then let’s get rid of it!
Sometimes the protestations that the
issue is of no interest are made with an
astonishingly inappropriate fervor. The
classic example has been provided by
Professor Leonie Kramer in her review
of “Australia and the Monarchy” (THE
BULLETIN, June 18, 1966). Her starchy
prose rustles like Queen Victoria’s skirts.
Commenting on my not very revolutionary
aims for the book, to ask the questions
“What do Australians think about the
Monarchy?” and “Where do their
loyalties lie?” she wrote, “I have to con-
fess at once that both these aims seem to
me, in this year 1966, to be peculiarly
unimportant. In fact, I find it difficult
to imagine a time in our history when
they might have seemed less important.”
It is quite remarkable that a university
professor should be indifferent to a public
issue that excites a fruiterer or a tobac-
conist.
There is no reason why Professor
Kramer should not be personally moved
by being in London at the time of the
proclamation of the death of King George
VI, and she is welcome to be on her feet
when the so-called National Anthem plays.
But what is disturbing is her attitude to
Australia. It is shared by Dr. Noel Mc-
Lachlan (Melbourne “Age,” June 11),
who admits to being a republican, but,
like St. Augustine begging the Lord to
make him chaste, not yet. If we got rid
of the Monarchy, says Professor Kramer,
we would be plunged into a sordid and
humdrum “latter-day Furphyism.” Dr.
McLachlan is more oracular, warning us
that “it is instructive” to consider that
the late P. R. Stephensen, a leading re-
publican, had ideas that “took him in-
creasingly in the direction of fascism.
Perhaps the precedent of another isolated
and now isolationist, ex-British republic,
South Africa, is relevant, too . . .’’
Professor Kramer and Dr. McLachlan
are at one with Bishop Moyes and Mr.
Stuckey of the Royal Commonwealth
Society in distrusting the ability of Aus-
tralians to stand on their own feet. On
the ABC’s TV program “Four Corners”
Bishop Moyes said, “Republicanism is a
teenage idea. We in the British Common-
wealth are all part of a family.” In the
same program Mr. Stuckey said, “The
countries that are not stable are all re-
publics.” This distrust of an adult Aus-
tralian public suggests what one has often
suspected, that there is a strong authori-
tarian streak in many Australians which
is gratified by the presence of the Mon-
archy. Perhaps, far from being the in-
dependent-minded democrats we pride
ourselves on being, we are potential vic-
tims of a cunning dictator from Mudgee
or Yarra Glen, who is only kept at bay
by the Queen of Australia.
If so, this should be good news for all
those migrants who have thought they
could entrust their future to Australia, but
who are uncomfortable at swearing al-
legiance to Her Majesty. Alas, it does not
seem to work that way! Stubbornly the
migrants continue to want to be loyal to
Australia, not to the Queen. Their views,
patiently revealed in Rohan Rivett’s
thoughtful chapter on “The Monarchy
and the Migrant” in “Australia and the
Monarchy,” were stated with great dig-
nity and not a little courage by an Italian
girl on “Four Corners.”
The “Four Corners” interviewer ex-
tracted some unsympathetic comments on
such views from various ladies and gentle-
men at a Queen’s Birthday Ball in Syd-
ney. “Migrants? No problem at all.
They’re either loyal or they’re not,” ex-
claimed one splendid lady. Similarly Mr.
Stuckey said, “Some migrants are puzzled
at first to pick up the relationship, but
they soon do, and then there’s no trouble
at all.”
The inference is that the migrants, who,
of course, have mostly co,me from unstable
and unhappy republics, will find political
stability here, not because of the good
sense of Australians, but because of the
Crown.
One gets a different series of questions
and answers from talking to students. The
latest Republican society in an Australian
university has recently been founded in
Adelaide, where some wit called it the
RSL Republican Students’ League. At
a debate recently at Adelaide University
between lan Wilson and myself on the
subject of “The Monarchy: Help or
Hindrance to Australia,” one student asked
a question that had obviously been in all
their minds. “The serviceman in Vietnam
who has sworn allegiance to the Queen
who is he fighting for, the Queen or Aus-
tralia?” It was a pity Brig. Eastick was
not there to answer that one. Another
student was a yachting enthusiast, and was
most indignant that Australia does not
even officially exist for something like the
America’s Cup, and that Australian con-
tenders in international races have to have
KA (K for Britain, A for Australia) on
their sails.
Professional intellectuals, who either,
like Professor Kramer, emotionally oppose
any discussion of the role of the Monarchy
in Australia, or who, like Dr. McLachlan
or J. D. Pringle (“Sydney Morning
Herald,” June 11), admit the inevitability
of a republic, but say “What a bore!”
may well be out of touch with a deep
Australian national feeling, which is not
to be confused with what Donald Horne
has called “tatty nationalism.”
Of course there are many men of good-
will on both sides of what, pace Peter
Coleman, does not seem to be turning out
as a phony debate. So there are on every
important public issue. And the relation
of Australia to the Monarchy is an im-
portant public issue.
A Tidy monarchy
(Prom Punch Magazine)
“Can’t get over it! Shaking
hands with an ordinary
bloke like me.”
“The King shook
my hand...”
“Smashing bloke —
shook hands with
me. .."
“Heh! That royal slob must have
used all the water.”


GRAMP’S
ORLANDO
VINTAGE WINE
RECOMMENDATIONS
Each of the undermentioned
Vintage Wines is commended
by Orlando for special con-
sideration by all wine lovers.
1962 ORLANDO BLUE
RIBBON SPAETLESE
RIESLING.
A fruity, delicate, “late pick-
ing” Riesling with a pro-
nounced Rhine Riesling bou-
quet and sweet, crisp palate.
Made entirely from Rhine
Riesling grapes grown in the
hilly country of the Barossa
Valley in sandy, gravelly loam.
1964 ORLANDO BAROSSA
RIESLING.
Barossa Riesling has won more
awards than any other Aus-
tralian Riesling. This delicate
Riesling is cold and control
fermented immediately after
crushing to ensure a cool,
steady fermentation that pro-
duces the wine’s delicate nose
and clean, crisp, acid palate.
1962 ORLANDO BAROSSA
CABERNET.
This fine blend of Cabernet
Sauvignon and Hermitage is
matured in French oak for 18
months and then bottle aged.
It is a full bodied, red table
wine with a pronounced Caber-
net nose and soft, tannin finish.
ORLANDO 1960
WHITE BURGUNDY
Vintaged from Trebbiano and
Madeira grapes grown in the
Company’s own vineyards at
Rowland Flat in the famed
Barossa Valley, this full-bodied
White Burgundy has a pro-
nounced Trebbiano bouquet
and palate. It was awarded a
Gold Medal at the 1964 Inter-
national Wine Fair, Yugo-
slavia.
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd.,
Orlando Vineyards, Barossa
Valley, South Australia, are
pleased to supply wine makers’
notes on their Vintage Wines
to wine clubs and individual
wine lovers. If you have any
difficulty obtaining any of the
above listed wines please write
or phone the Orlando office
in your Capital City.
1468 A
WINE OF THE MONTH
Good—and Available
IN an article written
for THE BULLE-
TIN nearly two
years ago I recom-
mended Buring’s Chat-
eau Leonay Vintage
Rhine Riesling as an
outstanding delicate
white wine. That par-
ticular vintage was the
’63. Two years later
my palate remains
consistent, for, as my
July Wine-of-the-Month, I select the same
wine, different vintage; 1965.
Sitting at a refectory table over three
hundred years old, on a chair nearly four
hundred years old, my mind full of
thought about the wine while my mouth
is full of it, I somehow feel that we are
not incompatible. Only the typewriter re-
mains an incongruity. Obviously the style
is most consistent. The ’63, ’64, and ’65
have been extremely good wines in their
respective for-sale years, and this con-
sistency is reflected in the prizes that
they have won in the shows. Yet this is
a standard commercial wine with no fancy
numbers or affectations, and is available
at the most reasonable price. It is only
after the awards that sometimes it gets
the numbered treatment, and that’s fair
enough, anyway.
The ’63 won five Gold Medals in Syd-
ney and Adelaide in ’63 and ’64, includ-
ing one in an Open Class and the Bert
Bear Memorial Trophy in Sydney for the
Best Young White of the Show. The ’64
got several Silvers, and already the ’65
has won Golds in Adelaide and Melbourne.
I mention all this to point out once more
that standard lines can, and do, win the
highest awards and yet remain available.
What is so remarkable about it?
Nothing, except that it’s a top white wine
of the Hock style. Some people get con-
fused between Hock and Riesling when
there is really no difference. I’ve even
heard the statement, “Can’t stand Hock,
but I do like a nice Riesling!” Just re-
member that German Rhine wines are
called Hocks by the British and the basis
of them is the Rhine Riesling grape. And
all the comparisons are here if you want
to be odious.
On opening, the first thing that literally
strikes you is the full force of the bouquet,
typical Rhine Riesling par excellence, or
should I say ausgezeichnet. It’s a fine full
flowery fruitiness. You can almost taste
the luscious grapes, as the back of a bus
once told me. The clean fruitiness con-
tinues on to the palate with its attendant
aroma, and a trace of gas, or Spritzig,
pleasantly tingles on the tongue. The finish
is classically clean and crisp. Though the
grape flavors are so apparent, there is not
the slightest hint of coarseness. The whole
wine is beautifully balanced and delight-
fully delicate.
The grapes used come from two dif-
ferent areas, both of them noted for
delicacy, the Watervale/Clare district and
the Eden Valley. Both areas are a few
hundred feet higher than the Barossa and
this allows the grapes to ripen to develop
their true fruit character, while retaining
the necessary acid essential for balance.
In hotter climes they have to be picked
earlier.
Reg Shipster and John Vickery are the
manager and winemaker at Chateau
Leonay, deep in the heart of the Barossa.
Between them they have evolved this dis-
tinctive style over the last ten years. The
success of the Rhine Riesling, particularly
the ’63s, has encouraged them to empha-
sise this variety in their future plans, so
it seems we will be fortunate enough to
continue tasting plenty of it.
Chateau Leonay is a large part of the
legend of the late Leo Buring. He bought
it in 1945, when it was the Orange Grove
Winery, intending to develop it into the
style of a French Chateau. His vision of
it may still be seen on the present labels
of the C.L. Vintage lines. Only one tower
was completed before Mr. Buring died and
this seems a shame. Completed, it would
have been a fitting tribute to a man who
did so much to develop in Australians a
taste for wine.
But today every available cent is being
spent on the expansion and equipment
which will ensure future supplies; the
modern gentle crushers, the ultra-coolers,
and new presses, all of which means
greater delicacy and quality. For in the
handling of the raw material lies much
of the success of our white wines in recent
years, and at Chateau Leonay this is of
paramount importance. Reg Shipster says,
“We’re not very big and we can give a
lot of attention to the material.”
They must be devoted, especially when
the material is the Rhine Riesling grape.
This vintage, the second consecutive dry
one, was a poor-quality year in the
Barossa, though the quality was high. But
the yields were down and Rhine Riesling
is a notoriously shy bearer, anyway. The
bunches were so small and so spread that
at vintage they became a picker’s night-
mare. So they decided to measure their
efforts.
It took 390 snips of the secateurs to
fill one bucket!
I reckon that means there’s about 15
snips in each glass.
So treasure it.
CELLARMASTER
“My cup runneth over.”


WINE OF THE WEEK
LINDEMAN’S
PRIVATE BIN
CLARET
BIN 45
VINTAGE
1963
Made from
Red Hermi-
tage grapes
grown in the
Hunter
River,
Clare, and
Goulburn
Valleys.
A lightish
claret with
a strong,
attractive
flavour.
selected vintage
,I„_ PRIVATE BIN
C URET bin
rAose m.'
****
Cfc* **
“ tN4 -m Wmi! PTy, t-Tfti
- S ?*NBY
SILVER MEDAL, 1965
Adelaide Wine Show,
Dry Red Export Class.
MOST SUCCESSFUL EXHIBITOR
THIRD YEAR IN SUCCESSION
AUSTRALIAN
CHAMPIONSHIP WINE SHOW
1964 1965 1966
/ind
eman's
AUSTRALIA’S
GREATEST
PRIZE-WINNERS
LW/PB4SS
Reformation
Short Story by Norma Hall
WHEN I was a little girl I did not
see my mother very much as she
was a fallen woman and worked
nights. I was left by myself; Sometimes in
the small hours I would hear the creaking
of a shutter and huddle beneath my soft
mohair blankets, lonely and frightened.
Mother was usually home in the morn-
ings, but she slept until lunch. About the
time I came in from school she would
bathe and sit half-dressed, polishing her
nails or rearranging her hair, waiting for
the phone to ring. Our house had a view
of Sydney Harbor, and two telephones. I
was not allowed to answer mother’s phone,
which stood on the small glass-topped
Louis XIV table (Monsieur Leon 1947,
who at a later date provided tapestries for
the dining-room) by her bed. It never
rang in the morning and very rarely before
five or six in the evening, but after a
phone call it only took her a few minutes
to finish dressing. I loved to see her ready
to go out, for although I was used to her
beauty she had a way of being suddenly
more beautiful than I expected.
I was not acquainted then with the
nature of her work, but knew that only
inordinate talent and earnest application
could have made possible the extravagance
of our surroundings.
In exceptional circumstances men con-
nected with mother’s work would come to
our door. Despite the apparent urgency
that occasioned their visits mother w-as
never pleased to have business people at
the house, and her manner, cordial and
even gay to the visitor, was strained to
anyone who knew her well. At these times
I was sent on an errand that often seemed
not really necessary.
I learnt early that generosity was the
prerogative of the male and that women
as mean as hell. This w ? as evident
when I w r ent to the grocer’s, dry-cleaner’s,
or just dowm to the shops to spend my
pocket-money; the women looked at me
silently with cold eyes and the men gave
me tickets for the pictures, an ice-cream
or a bag of sweets. I came to regard these
extra bounties as my due, but I w-as alw ; ays
willing to share them.
I shared, too, the luxury of my home.
The house w r as crowded after school wdth
my friends, who enjoyed the exciting
games that only our unique decor could
provide. We played animal hunters with
the tiger-skin rugs (Indian delegate, 1948
Trades Convention) in the hall. Or dressed
in the robes of an African chief (different
delegate, same convention). A stuffed
horse on a polished base (the combined
gift of Divisional Inspectors Victorian and
N.S.W. Mounted Police) was hastily
removed from the isolation of the store-
room when we realised that slipping a
few roller-skates underneath it made it
mobile. With it we could be Ned Kelly or
Brunnhilde, though mostly we just took
turns at pushing each other along the hall
or around the drive.
Sometimes one of my schoolfriends
would suddenly and inexplicably tell me
that she was not allowed to play with me
any more, but a profusion of other com-
panions softened these partings to a pang
soon forgotten in the midst of other things.
After the Ecumenical Conference in 1951
anyone at our house could read, or at
least admire, Bibles in 17 different lan-
guages. Mother had a special bookcase
made for them that was fastened to the
wall near the fireplace, but the odd number
bothered her, as there was a gap on the
bottom shelf and she’d often say that she’d
happily swap her knight for a bishop (she
was at that time collaborating with Sir
Hubert Fitzburton, K.C.M.G.).
When the sky darkened and my friends
gradually drifted away to their homes I
would get my dinner, an elaborate repast,
left ready to serve by our daily woman.
If mother was still at home she would sit
with me while I ate, sipping a glass of
sherry and chatting, her silky slip visible
through a house gown.
I received an indoor swimming-pool for
my ninth birthday. It was built in the
enclosed courtyard outside my bedroom
and charmed even the most reluctant
bathers. My friends and I abandoned other
games and swam every day after school.
In the evenings I would swim alone.
One night as I stood poised, about to
dive, the doorbell rang. I raced through
my room and down the hall, expecting the
caller to be the friend who had left her
case on my bed and collided with mother
as she opened the door. A gentleman stood
before us. In the dim light of the porch
I mistook his clerical garb for evening
dress, as mother did, for her warm smile
changed to a look of inquiry as he stepped
inside.
He was, he said, collecting; collecting-
sinners. Mother, no doubt immediately
aware that he would not provide the extra
volume for the bookcase and conscious of
my presence, wavered in her anxiety to be
rid of him and the necessity of being polite.
After a moment she led him into the
living-room. I returned to the pool, but the
underwater lights had fused and the water
looked murky and deep.
The clergyman stayed late into the night,
and although mother’s telephone kept ring-
ing she did not answer it.
Mother gave up her wanton ways. For a
long time she did not go out at all, except
to sell a Degas or pawn an emerald. She
gave large sums to charities and larger
sums to the clergyman who was our only
caller. In less than six months she had sold
the house, the car, nearly all the furniture
and most of her clothes.
We moved into a weatherboard cottage,
where the wind blew through the cracks
and the noise from the bowling alley a
few doors along made my head ache.
Mother stayed at home all day pottering
around lethargically, her nails broken and
her hair unbrushed.
At night she pulled on (a thin fawn
coat and went out on the streets to help
those women not as fortunate as herself.
In the small hours I would hear the creak-
ing of a floorboard and huddle beneath
my threadbare blankets, lonely and
frightened.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
A Night Out with Morey
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Hollywood today? i was at a
party at Edie Adams’s. We were
all sitting on the floor. Edie had
broken her sewing machine. So we all sat
around trying to find ways of mending
the sewing machine. I said, ‘This is Holly-
wood? This is the wild party? And we’re
all just sitting around mending a sewing
machine?’ That’s Hollywood.”
The schmalz-mit-pretzels approach and
the weaving repetitive phrases were typi-
cal of Morey Amsterdam, an engaging
Jewish comedian currently playing the
Chevron Hotel in Sydney. Beyond the
solid ringside phalanxes at the Silver
Spade led by a staunch Andrea, the
Les Hookers, and the Bob Grahams of
Paramount at the flagship table —the white
tablecloths gleamed emptily that night
for his performance, but the unfazed Mr.
Amsterdam galloped briskly through a
Morey Amsterdam
couple of dozen Jewish, Irish, Hollywood
Toilet, and (the best ones) subdued ironic
jokes.
He had begun playing vaudeville, had
worked up through comedy sketches
written for well-known comedians of the
’thirties and ’forties, and was now, as well
as a motion picture company boss,
obviously a sure-fire hit with the Holly-
wood Jewish community on its nights out.
What, I asked him, was the chief differ-
ence between playing vaudeville and
television for laughs? “You have to be
cleaner. And I remember when I made
my first picture, ‘Machine Gun Kelly.’
The director said to me, ‘Every time you
raise your eyebrow, it goes up six feet.’
“Today, I say, everyone has two busi-
nesses: his own and show business. The
other mopth I was in England. I see this
porter sleeping. He’s sweeping and
sweeping. I pass by. He looks up. ‘Hullo,
Morey,’ he says, and then goes right on
sweeping . . .
“You see, all the people on television
play themselves. That’s the difference from
vaudeville, that’s why people/ feel
they know the guys on the screen like
they know their friends. Otherwise, it’s
much the same. Why, on the ‘Dick van
Dyke Show’ —that’s one I’ve been on—
the laughter you hear isn’t canned, it’s
real. There’s a real audience out there,
and you’re playing for real laughs.”
Amsterdam had learned his skilled pat-
ter through working it out for other come-
dians. (“Whenever they run out of laughs,
they come to Morey,” said his wife, a
gilded Californian blonde.) “You know
Jack Benny. He’s thought of as a come-
dian. But he’s the straight man. I wrote
a funny line he said, ‘I wish I could
tell that, it’s so funny.’ I said, ‘What do
you mean, Jack?’ He said, ‘l’m not the
comedian, I’m the straight man. I have to
be the butt of the joke.’ ”
Why were so many comedians one met
no matter how famous depressed
and unstable off stage? “It comes from a
sense of insecurity, when they don’t write
their own material. When they have to
be funny themselves, they suddenly realise
they aren’t funny.
“I’ll tell you something. When I was
starting out my brother, and I wanted a
writer who was very well known at the
time James Madison to write a
sketch for us. He said, come back in a
week. We came back in a week. He gave
us three pieces of paper. And it cost us
$5O0 —a fortune in those days. And the
three pieces of paper were lousy. So I
wrote my own act. And I’ve written it
ever since.”
In two recent beach pictures made by
the company of which he was “goodwill
vice-president,” American-International,
Morey Amsterdam had played “a far-out
nut.” (“That’s type casting for you,”
Mrs. Amsterdam observed coolly.) He
had just finished directing a film of his
own, “Don’t Worry, We’ll Think of a
Title,” a space-age “camp” comedy, and
was working on his autobiography. “It
consists of 20,000 one-liners. Dick van
Dyke is doing the illustrations. And it’s
called, ‘I Remember Me.’ ”
“Australia? I had a letter—a very nice
letter —from a guy named Gene Janes —
he’s a writer in the Blue Mountains.
Wants to know if he can write comedy
material for acts in the States. I’ve got
to write him—a very nice letter —saying
there’s no chance . . .
“You know, that Don Lane Show . . .
I don’t think it has a good director. Don
Lane, he’s a good reaction man. But he
does a reaction to my joke; they show
my face . . . And I’m playing the cello.
Nor would you believe this, they take
me in close-up, and you can’t see the
cello at all. I’ll go on the show again.
I guess I’ll tell Don Lane . . .”
Already, it seemed, Morey Amsterdam
was ready to direct “The Don Lane
Show” himself.
The Artist-Teacher Conflict
By J. C. KAYE
JOHN BRACK’S decision to retire
from his post as head of the art
school of the National Gallery of
Victoria in December will put the gal-
lery trustees in a fix and probably re-
open a controversy that has died down
since Brack accepted the job “tem-
porarily” in 1962.
In May that year, the realist, Alan
Sumner, quit the post after 15 years be-
cause of what he called the “poor atti-
tude” toward the art school of the gallery
director, English-born and educated Mr.
Eric Westbrook. Sumner complained of
interference from the director. “Manoeuv-
ring” and “machinations,” he said, had
become a common practice at both the
school and the gallery.
This chimed with an angry row be-
tween art factions in Melbourne which got
to the stage where certain grown men
would cross the street rather than meet.
Mr. William Dargie argued for the real-
ists as a minority producing the only
valuable art in Australia. Mr. Westbrook
said Mr. Dargie’s thinking was “muddled.”
The gallery trustees, an assorted group
of non-artists, held by the moderns to be
squarer than anything in a Mondrian,
asked John Brack, who was minding his
own business during the controversy, to
take the job at least until tempers cooled.
Brack was painting almost full time,
apart from a job as art master at Mel-
bourne Grammar. He was reluctant to
tie himself dovVn, but needed more security
than he had then for his wife and family.
He took the job at a salary said to be
not far above $2OOO a year. Small as this
was, it was considerably higher, it is be-
lieved, than Sumner was paid.
As a teacher at the gallery, Brack has
left his classes to follow their own ideas.
He has imposed neither Dargian nor
Westbrookian notions. One thing he has
done is to encourage his students to take
at least part of the Fine Arts course at
Melbourne University, to build up their
knowledge of art history. He has worked
hard at the problem of finding vacation
jobs for his students. And he has tried
to avoid pulling the wool over their eyes.
Any student who leaves Brack’s school
without realising that the life of a pro-
fessional artists is likely to be cruelly hard
and financially dubious until death has
not been listening. Perhaps he has dinned
this in a bit hard. When his first gradu-


ates took their diplomas recently, most
accepted jobs in schools to assure their
bread and butter.
When he told the trustees recently that
he would go this year, they thought it
might be a matter of salary. They were
unable to offer him more on the spot,
but undertook to try to arrange it. How-
ever, Brack would not stay on, even if his
pay were raised. There is no hard feeling.
He just wants to get back to painting
again. He is 45, and life is not endless.
Over the next four or five years, the
man in charge of the gallery school will
face the work of planning and organising
the new school to be created as part of
Melbourne’s Cultural Centre, now rising
like a concrete whale at the South end of
Princes Bridge.
John Brack can’t afford this time. His
show at Gallery A, South Yarra, last year
was a sell-out. He won the $3OOO Gallaher
prize at the end of last year for his
portrait of Dr. Harold Hattam. He is now
getting $2OOO a picture without much
trouble. Although he has had an easel
in a studio behind his small office at the
gallery, he has not been able to paint as
much as he would like, and finds it hard
to get one picture finished in several
months. He wants to work for a new
show, and to follow other Australian art-
ists, if he can, in getting recognition
abroad as well as here.
This, of course, is largely an economic
matter. Australian artists charging high
rates for their work soon find that the
number of potential Australian buyers is
limited. Brack has no interest in going
abroad himself, like Nolan and Arthur
Boyd and others, or even of making an
overseas painting foray, such as Clifton
Pugh managed last year in Mexico. But
he is conscious of the value of a more
than local distinction.
BALLET
Viva Mexico!
Ballet Folklorico of Mexico, Palais, Mel-
bourne.
THE impossible happened twice in one
night: Melbourne’s enormous Palais
Theatre was sold out and a visiting
theatrical troupe actually discouraged
applause. The first proves that theatre is
not dead in Australia, provided a good
attraction is properly publicised; the
second enabled more than 3000 enthusi-
astic people to enjoy a continuous enter-
tainment with ample time to express their
appreciation at the end.
Folk dancing and singing are not a
spectator sport; to take an extreme case,
one can dance a hora for hours. But who
would want to watch it? Any attempt
to make public entertainment out of folk
music must add artifice to whatever art
the original possesses. The Ballet Folk-
lorico of Mexico is the most effective ex-
ample of this principle in existence today.
It is fortunate in having a multiplicity
of folk idioms to fall back upon, avoiding
tiresome repetition, and these have been
built around some technical schooling.
The result is Western art based on folk
style rather than folk style enhanced by
professionalism.
The dancers are naturally the main at-
traction and one must bow in homage to
Amalia Hernandez (modestly absent at
curtain time), who has hidden some sound
ballet training behind these apparently
simple Spanish, Indian, and Mexican
dances. Let there be no misunderstanding.
The famous “Deer Dance” is performed
by a superbly trained, athletic, professional
dancer, Jorge Tyller, and not a talented
young savage, while the ensembles abound
in pointed feet and effectively disguised
but correct port de bras. Yet one never
has the feeling of watching ballet; the
folk element dominates with its simple
charm. Only the somewhat pretentious
ballet “The Aztec Gods” fails to convince.
Throughout, the magnificent decor and
costumes provide a spectacle which is
positively exhilarating. The coloring is
artistically tasteful, but never overwhelms,
and the use of white as a basic color is
carried out in an astonishingly successful
fashion.
The musicians use mostly native instru-
ments, which, like the dancers, have been
doctored to achieve modern standards. A
lot of work must have gone into the
tuning of a score of seashells to make a
harmonic whole and the many weird
variations of standard instruments, such
as violins, guitars, harps, etc., are aug-
Boom in Brasses
Brass of Lady Cobham in
Lingfield, Surrey, church.
Squire John Feld, jun.,
at Standon, Hertfordshire.
Fifteenth-century brass. All
from Keith Ross’s collection.
F simultaneous exhibitions in Sydney
and Melbourne constitute a boom, then
there is a boom in brass rubbings. Keith
Ross’s have been on show at the Craft Cen-
tury Gallery in Melbourne, and those of
Mary MacDonald Wilson, of Adelaide,
are at Grace Bros., Chatswood, Sydney.
Miss Wilson’s are not for sale and may
later be given to a museum. Mr. Ross
sold more than 40 of the 60 rubbings in
his exhibition, at prices from $2 to $6O.
Mr. Ross has photographed his work, has
given many rubbings to friends, but has
no plans to duplicate it for further shows.
He is sticking to architecture.
He has to accept that, until he goes
abroad again some day, his brass-rubbing
period is behind him. Melbourne is no
place for rubbers. It doesn’t even have
the manhole covers that enthusiasts make
rubbings from in the London streets.
Mr. Ross made his rubbings in churches
in London and the south-eastern counties
where brass was used for tomb-figuring
from the 13 th to the 16th centuries
because of the absence of suitable work-
able stone in this region.
He explained that you must get per-
mission from the vicar or his representa-
tive and usually pay a small fee, say, 10s.
or, at most, £l. In London, the rush to
take rubbings is extreme at places like
Westminster Abbey, where the authorities,
have to limit permits and forbid rubbing
altogether in the summer, when the Abbey
is thick with tourists.
At smaller churches, as at the Abbey,
English weather is no obstacle; the work
is indoors. But sometimes a wedding or a
funeral can hold up activity, and the
would-be rubber must restrain his
enthusiasm as best he can.
The way to take a rubbing is to fix
detail paper—a strong, light white paper
—firmly over the brass and work black
cobbler’s wax steadily and thoroughly over
the surface—in the same way as anyone
can take a rubbing from a coin with
paper and pencil.


mented by a more conventional brass en-
semble in the larger scenes. A large chorus
with several fine soloists is a tremendous
visual as well as aural asset.
The many soloists work tirelessly and,
for once, are easily identifiable in the
elaborate program. I noted with particu-
lar pleasure the splendidly graceful
“elevation” of Jocasta Gallardo, the con-
vincing sword-fighting of Rafael Zama-
rippa and Fernando Moya, which makes
sparks fly quite literally, the beautifully
even spinning out of vocal gold over an
incredibly long period by Mariano San-
chez, and the musical virtuosity of the
Vera Cruzanos.
With no yardstick against which this
unique entertainment can be measured,
there is little point in singling out indi-
vidual items. None, not even the “Deer
Dance,” is the star attraction. The fantas-
tic Indian Quetzal dance, or the Mexican
hat dance, or the Spanish Zapateado, or
the delightful comedy of the Viejitos, or
the bullfight, are just as good.
JOHN CARGHER
MELBOURNE FILM FESTIVAL
Italian Obsessions
INCEST by Balenciaga. Insanity by
Givenchy. Nannuzzi’s camera prowls
the palazzo capturing vogue-ish
images of the leading mannequins, Claudia
Cardinale and Jean Sorel, in a Harper’s
Bazaar of chic, elegant emotions. Vis-
conti’s attention to costume and decor
helped make “The Leopard” a spotless
creation, but devours his
“Sandra.”
Our artistic obsessions with mythic bush-
rangers, gumtrees, and the like pales into
reasonableness beside the continuing
Italian fad for filming their decadent
aristocracy. No sooner were we out of
Visconti’s mouldering boutique than we
were trapped in Bertolucci’s belfry. They
were all bats in “Fists in the Pockets.” An
epileptic young man lures his blind mother
from their mountainous mansion and en-
courages her to totter off a thousand-foot
cliff. After playing leap-frog over her
coffin, he drowns his stunted brother in
the bath, which prompts his sister to be-
come a paraplegic. Mr. Bertolucci was
only 23 when he directed “Fists” and his
youthful vigor puts Visconti to shame. Both
films had their leading men die in agony
on a Persian rug, but there was no com-
parison in the quality of the writhing.
In Manuel Summer’s “Girl in Mourn-
ing,” we’re off to gay, effervescent
Franco’s Spain, and this time the black
comedy is intentional. It is traditional in
certain districts for the bourgeoisie to go
into total mourning for six months on the
death of a relative which can be very
hard on young lovers. For no sooner is
our heroine, Rocio, freed from one such
blackout than her grandfather dies from
the excitement. Immediately the family
returns to mourning weeds, father paints
his crutch and the children’s toys black,
and the canary is shrouded. The pro-
longed estrangement becomes an intoler-
able strain to the young man, a profes-
sional vaccinator, and the vengeance he
enacts on unsuspecting bottoms costs him
his practice. But just when he persuades
Rocio to elope, her father ups and dies as
well. Summer’s best scene is the funeral
of the grandfather. The laconic under-
takers screw down the coffin lid, but leave
the patriarch’s tie protruding. This is
snipped off, but the coffin won’t fit in the
hearse until an obstructing beach ball is
removed by an undertaker sucking an icy-
pole. Then the procession promptly gets
mixed up with a bike race sponsored by
Coke.
Richard West recently described? “Papa
Doc” Duvalier’s Haiti as the Kingdom of
Hell on earth. And on the evidence of the
Cuban entry “Combite,” things have
changed little since the ’forties. Manuel
returns from the Cuban canefields to his
ramshackle village and finds his mother
busily organising Mambo rites to break an
appalling drought. Disgusted by the blood
sacrifices and the villagers’ underlying
fatalism he sets out to find water. After
weeks of searching in the arid hills, he
discovers a spring. To bring the water
down to the valley will require everyone’s
co-operation, but the village is divided over
an old blood-letting, and it requires
Manuel’s death to unite them.
Brecht’s “Undignified Old Lady,” direct-
ed by Rene Allio, begins by quoting one
of the “Anecdotes of Mr. Keuner”:
“A man who had not met Mr. K for a
long time
greeted him with the words, ‘You haven’t
changed
at all.’ ‘Oh!’ said Mr. K and turned
pale.”
Brecht’s heroine, superbly underplayed
by 85-year-old surnameless Sylvie, is a
great-grandmother, freed from the usual
domestic bondage by the death of her
husband. Despite the family’s protests, she
befriends a prostitute, buys a car, joins a
circle of anarchists, and dies 18 joyful
months later. Brecht’s point that we
all have the right and perhaps the duty
to change—is made lightly and naturalis-
tically in this delightful film.
While the Melbourne Film Festival
organisers deserve recognition in the
Honors List, it would be hard to find
adequate expletitives to hurl at their pro-
jectionist. Wrong lenses, bad threading,
clumsy racking, untidy masking, fuzzy
focus and visible sprockets and sound-
tracks were among the abominations in-
flicted upon us from the Palais’ bio box.
In the Coral Theatre, 16mm. prints were
projected on to what appeared to be a
fragment of Dead Sea scroll.
PHILLIP ADAMS
FILMS
Naughty Boys
Lord of the Flies. Director Peter Brook,
Savoy, Sydney.
AT last we get to see the screen version
of “Lord of the Flies,” and I’m
afraid it’s a bit of a let-down. It’s
a literal translation of the novel, perhaps,
indeed, a little too faithfully accurate: a
more strictly cinematic approach could
have been more effective. On the adven-
ture story level it’s entertaining enough.
but it never has the shocking impact of a
book that had me gasping like a beached
fish from practically the first page.
William, Golding’s thesis is that children
are not innocent angels corrupted by adult
society but that they come into the world
equipped with a savage, self-centred
cruelty which must be repressed for some
degree of civilisation. He demonstrates
the theory through a group of decent
English schoolboys stranded on a desert
island by a plane crash. At first they co-
operate amicably, but quickly regress to
primitive savagery, blood-sacrifices, and
devil-worship, destroying the few boys who
try to retain the inculcated play-the-game
attitude.
Peter Brook, unfortunately, never makes
the boys’ degeneration look much worse
than bad behaviour to be punished by a
belting and no tea; they are a bunch of
larrikins rather than the embodiment of
the beast in man. He handles his ypung
players expertly, but plays down the
character of Jack (Tom Chapin), a wil-
lowy blond boy who is nothing like the
bullying born stormtrooper he should be.
On the other hand, he conjures a fine per-
formance from James Aubrey as Ralph,
the only boy who retains sanity, and Hugh
Edwards looks so entirely right as Piggy
that one can forgive 'the somewhat
monotonous reading of his lines.
The supporting program includes Chris-
topher Miles’ short feature “The Six-Sided
Triangle,” a brilliant parody of various
types. of movie-making, which was Shown
at last year’s Film Festival and is well
worth another delighted look.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
In the Footsteps
of Fu Manchu
Television thrillers such as “The
Man From U.N.C.L.E.” are intend-
ed to entertain all the family, includ-
ing children, so they only offer a semblance
of thrills, mostly conveyed by a semblance
of action, with a few gimmicks thrown in
to disguise the fact that all of this is de-
rived from old sources, the most recent
of them Fu Manchu.
Recently an episode of “The Man From
U.N.C.L.E.” was set on an Adriatic Ex-
press which looked as though it had been
used around Hollywood for at least 36
years, and had the usual number of corpses
littering the washrooms. I would not be
surprised if these dead ’uns are built in,
because few thriller-makers have ever
bothered to show how they got there.
The “new” element is the mock-serious
attitudes of the agents, who smile, even
giggle, in the face of many deaths. Even
the villains sneei’ gently. Everyone joins
in the joke. But not, I suggest, to reflect
a modern “cool” attitude so much as to
cloak the threadbare plot and situation
which is being re-used. Fu Manchu’s smile
held no self-mockery. It came to us over
a bunch of six-inch-long fingernails
extruding from a kimono sleeve which
hid all kinds of simple ways to kill.
The old thrillers were meant to chill.


a great moment
for all
whisky
drinkers
Connoisseurs are aware of the vital part grain plays in pro-
ducing a fine, smooth whisky. Australian barley, grown
under ideal climatic conditions, has reached such high
quality that it is now recognised internationally for its
superb whisky-producing qualities. This is important for
Australia; it is important for the entire Australian Whisky
industry. For the first time our modern distilleries, with
their highly skilled blenders and strict quality controls, are
now able to create smooth, matured whiskies of truly
unique character.
This is the era when Australian Whisky has achieved full
international recognition—so much so that it is being
sought in increasing quantities by overseas countries.
Connoisseurs are already celebrating this new era. Why
not join in and enjoy a nip or two tonight? You’ll be
pleasantly surprised.
The weapons threatening the hero were
old weapons rediscovered, supposedly. But
that today’s agents should use last year’s
weaponry is ridiculous. Technology de-
mands they should use, not Birettas but
lasers and masers, not fast cars but air-
craft, parachutes, and rocket belts. Modern
thriller heroes such as Napoleon Solo and
Ilya Kuryakin are unrumpled sissies com-
pared to the stalwart Britons who cried,
“You fiend from hell, Fu Manchu.”
A second look at the running man, Paul
Bryan, showed him far from his earlier
“Quiet American” position when he
meddled in other’s lives in other coun-
tries. He, too, had forsaken the new for
the old, and was in an American farm-
house with a girl and a psychotic young
man who planned to “pounce” them.
There were creaks, groans, wild laughter
in the hallways, tape-recorders, and a hid-
den brother. Paul Bryan, played in Ben
Gazzara’s usual method way, with clench-
ed teeth and all-purpose half-smile, faced
the maniac with a poker, and instead of
clunking him and dragging him into the
light, acted the psychiatrist and wormed
out the reasons for his rounding the bend.
The same week Channel 7’s Ann Deve-
son was pointing an accusing finger at the
“private eyes” of thriller fiction. In 30
minutes she proved that the trade, though
slightly off-beat, was rather dull and that
fact is often a stranger to fiction. A good
part of the action was taken up by a dis-
cussion of how a sleuth shadowed Miss D.
around one day. Beginning at 2 p.m.
when she left a radio station, later picked
up her husband, Ellis Blain, at the ABC
and accompanied him to such secret
rendezvous as Kings Cross coffee shops.
The most energetic thing the shadow had
to do was find places to park his car.
If this and “Run For Your Life” or
“U.N.C.L.E.” were the best that television
offered, I would rather settle down at
night with a good book by Sax Rohmer.
FRANK ROBERTS
JAZZ
Wild Man
LESS than five years ago a blind
American negro, with the masses of
plumbing draped round his neck
reminiscent of some vaguely remembered
vaudeville artist, Roland Kirk, became the
sensation of the European jazz concert
circuit. Since then, through recordings, he
has either won the admiration of jazz fans
throughout the world or been roundly
condemned as a gimmicky showman.
To the untrained ear his wild impro-
visations and weird sounds and noises will
require patient listening. To hear oboe,
tenor, and stritch played at once makes
one wonder how Kirk can cope with the
entirely different embouchure of the oboe
as well as the other horns. And when he
overblows and sings through his flute
many are tempted to condemn.
When Kirk first conceived the idea of
three horns he searched music stores for
the instruments that would give him the
sound he wanted. He settled on two weird
instruments, the stritch and the manzello,
with unique tones of their own. These
two antique horns blend with the tenor
to produce the three-horn harmony that
characterises many of his recordings.
For those who like wild, exciting, pas-
sionate, gutsy jazz, Roland Kirk’s latest
recording Rip Rig and Panic (Lime-
light LM82027), will certainly appeal.
However, you must not be afraid to have
your ear assaulted with weird and won-
derful sounds, including wails, screeches,
sirens, and chimes in one of the most
bizarre discs to come our way. Kirk even
flirts with the avante garde in the title
tune, when taped and distorted tenor,
piano*and bass, playing in free form, are
used to form an electronic-music-type
introduction.
Here, too, are examples of straight-
forward blowing on tenor and flute on
the ballads “Once in a While,” “Black
Diamond,” and “Mystical Dream,” but
there are still the Kirk embellishments
with wild endings. “From Bechet, Byas
and Fats” finds Jaki Byard playing mag-
nificent stride piano in a tribute to these
three greats. These explosive performances
add up to Roland Kirk’s best recording to
date. One can only ask—What next?
FRANK BAKER


£
FLY TO SWITZERLAND
VIA THE EAST
SWISSCARE
■b
WORLDWIDE
BOOKS
The Sage of Cap Ferrat
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Somerset and all the Maughams. Robin
Maugham. Longmans and Heinemann.
$4.60.
THE tragedy of Somerset Maugham,
as his nephew points out in this
rather trivial memoir, was that he
sold far too well to be taken seriously as
a novelist. His skill, his smoothness, his
rather conventional plotting, and the mas-
sive wisdom he bore so lightly also told
in the long run against him. He lived
through a period in which the critically
revered novelists tended to be experi-
mentalists, jugglers with words. He is one
of those writers who almost forces his
admirers into a philistine position, deplor-
ing all those writers who found new things
to do with language, who explored ideas
with courageous unconventionality. It is
a position Mr. Robin Maugham only
avoids by a hairsbreadth in these sober,
measured, and sometimes commonplace
pages.
What gave tension and stature to
Maugham’s writing was the suffering it
contained within an impeccably lacquered
shell. Maugham himself believed that
suffering does not ennoble, and of course
he was right; but pain undoubtedly can
hone sharp a writer’s talent. Robin
Maugham rather suggests that his uncle
was incapable of painting a warm or
appealing portrait of a woman, but I
find it impossible to agree: Maugham’s
understanding of women was far deeper
than he has been given credit for, and
far more touched by kindness. Sophie in
“The Razor’s Edge,” declining from a
buxom and pretty Middle Western girl
into a pathetic drudge in Paris and Mar-
seilles, is a flawlessly observed portrait,
and so is Suzanne, the warm and intelli-
gent cocotte. Isabel Maturin in the same
work is even more exquisitely done: the
brittle socialite of the opening stages is
developed with great subtlety into the
spoilt and finally merciless woman whom
the near-saint Larry Darrell rejects.
Even Mildred, the heartless Cockney
waitress of “Of Human Bondage,’’ is ob-
served without real malice. The trouble,
of course, is that Maugham first tended
to be associated with his own Gauguin-
like hero in “The Moon and Sixpence,”
who treated women brutally; and later
with the image of a decadent homosexual
nonagenarian, an image that has resulted
from the posthumous public disclosure of
his sexual interests, and from the nauseat-
ingly predatory writings of Beverly
Nichols and others. Over that vulture’s
feast one should probably draw a veil; but
suffice it to say that the calm sense and
decency of Maugham’s writing render such
charges irrelevant and that his work will
outlast that of any woman’s magazine
gossip.
Robin Maugham, although he writes in
an agreeably affectionate tone, doesn’t
seem to me wholly to escape the charge
that he has cashed in on his illustrious
relative’s present newsworthiness, nor that
he has emphasised aspects of the man’s
character, which, though sensational, cast
no real light on his work. It seems point-
less to provide us with an anecdote about
Maugham plunging into a deep abyss of
despair, crying out that he is “a horribly
evil old man.” So what? The hint made
by some reviewers that a pact had been
entered into with the devil is at once
facetious and childishly absurd. If
Maugham felt wicked, if he felt a sense
of failure, it was only because a body of
the great age his reached is liable to
bring a terrible sense of oppression to the
mind. I think Robin Maugham was en-
tirely wrong to emphasise these moments
of depression as though they carried a
weight of illuminating significance.
Elsewhere, though, the memoir which
also takes in some rather less interesting
material about the stolidly ordinary
Maugham family does offer some in-,
cidental insights. A good point is made
about Maugham’s stammer: it made him
unusually meticulous in his writing style.
His days at school ake sharply suggested,
and the brutality of English schoolboys
when confronted with an afflicted child
like Maugham well conveyed. I was especi-
ally intrigued to learn that Maugham’s
brother, a writer of verse plays, com-
mitted suicide after his work was rejected
and after Maugham’s became a West End
success.
Where Robin Maugham is most dis-
appointing is in his whole section on his
uncle’s life at the Villa Mauresque
(Maugham’s relationship with the homo-
sexual Gerald Haxton is also distressingly
lightly sketched). At the Villa, one does
get a bright scene or two: Maugham’s in-
vitation of three princesses to lunch shows
that there was a good deal more of Elliot
Templeton, the arch-snob of “The Razor’s
Edge,” in his character than he ever ad-
mitted. But we don’t learn enough about
MaughaiVi’s taste in reading, of the details
of his diet and his cellar, of his maxims
and mots justes, or of the whole texture
of his daily living, so filled with regrets,
yet so often, one imagines, suffused with
the beauty of his house and the enchant-
ment of his surroundings on the Mediter-
ranean coast. The verbal sketches are
cleverly jotted, often of a vivid brightness,
but often they show the pettiness of the
subject: his taste, his wit, and his intensely
civilised appreciation of the good things
of life seldom if ever emerge.
I hope I do not do Robin Maugham
a disservice when I say that, much as I
enjoyed this book, I shall never read it
again. I would much rather re-read “The
Razor’s Edge,” to my rnind Maugham’s
finest novel, or the short stories, or the
essays on novelists, or the beautiful auto-
biography “The Summing Up.” There I
can find that very wise old party holding
forth, brave in the face of the oblivion
that he believed faces us all at death,
calmly recording the foibles of human
beings in a voice of a beautifully measured
sobriety that I think will long outlive his
90 and more years on earth.
The Lawrence Legend
By LEONIE KRAMER
The Forked Flame. H. M. Daleski. Faber.
$7.
SOME important writers manage to live
relatively quiet lives. Their reputa-
tions established, they enjoy the
attentions of critics and scholars in an
atmosphere of civilised courtesy. Their
merits are demonstrated with affection
and respect; their faults are mere
blemishes, not to be rebuked or deplored.
D. H. Lawrence has never been a writer
of this kind, and perhaps is not likely to
become one. He is a writer who earns
devotion rather than admiration. The real
trouble is that more than most writers
Lawrence faces his readers with problems
(and facts) they can hardly ignore. He
invites one as Joyce, for example, does
not to see oneself as an inhabitant of
his world and to take sides in its debates.
His own involvement in his fiction involves
his readers, too, in a peculiarly intimate
way.
No doubt the main cause of this feel-
ing of intimate involvement even in
these days of licence is that complex
though his moral vision is, it depends upon
a quite particular understanding of the
nature of sexual relationships. In “Women
In Love,” for example, Gerald Crich’s
corruptness and cruelty take various forms,
and are made manifest in his treatment of
his employees, his family, and even his
animals. Yet we are made to feel that in
the end it is his debasement of the sexual
relationship with Gudrun that is the most
conclusive evidence of his corruption;
further, that it is possibly the explanation


of many other cruelties; that it is cer-
tainly a denial of humane and moral
values. A writer who sees as clearly as
Lawrence, not only the importance of
sexual relationships, but the importance
of the quality of sexual relationships, and
who insists upon describing them at
length and evaluating them, may be popu-
lar for the wrong reasons, but is bound
to make enemies for the right ones.
Mr. Daleski is certainly not one of his
enemies. He is also, clearly, one of Dr.
Leavis’ admirers, and is heavily indebted,
both in substance and method, to Leavis’
study of Lawrence. But he is by no means
an uncritical admirer, and on several im-
portant points successfully questions
Leavis’ judgments and conclusions. There
is much to admire in his book. It is con-
sistently intelligent and clearly argued.
But it is not a book for the casual reader
of Lawrence, nor, indeed, for anyone who
is not prepared to spend a great deal of
time carefully re-examining certain pas-
sages from the novels in the light of Mr.
Daleski’s analysis of them. Anyone who is
prepared to embark on the long and
strenuous journey will find rewards in the
form of the clarification of difficulties, the
cogent judgment of triumphs and failures,
and some interesting views on the develop-
ment of Lawrence’s ideas from “Sons and
Lovers” to “Lady Chatterley’s Lover.”
“The Forked Flame” is so thorough
and soberly argued that it seems captious
to express uneasiness about what it is
actually doing, and in particular about its
methods of analysis. I do not think that
anyone would doubt that the best way to
bring students to a real understanding of
literature is to face them with particular
poems, sections of novels, and scenes from
plays and encourage them to discover for
themselves how these belong in the con-
text of the whole work, and what they
say to the responsive reader. But to see
this method pursued, however intelli-
gently, through more than 300 pages of
a closely printed book is, for me at least,
to feel a shiver of apprehension.
In the first place, Mr. Daleski is con-
cerned with only one aspect of Law-
rence’s subject, and must perforce exclude
a great deal that belongs to a complete
view of any one novel. It is inevitable
that in his desire to follow through Law-
rence’s views on the “male” and “female”
principles, he must remove into the back-
ground the large and important social
questions which are so vital to Lawrence’s
vision of the world.
In the second place, the very thorough-
ness of his analytic method poses a
special problem. His examination of
special passages of text is supported bv
intricate expositions of the links between
them. The danger is that one begins to
take the analyses and expositions as a
substitute for the novels, and to suppose
that one is nearer to Lawrence through
Mr. Daleski’s account of him, than one
would be by finding one’s own way
through their complexities.
I mention this because Mr. Daleski
performs well what many modern critics
and scholars take to be—often mistakenly
~a valuable function, namely the exhaus-
tive explication of a writer’s work. One
emerges from the pages of Mr. Daleski’s
book with a strong impression of Law-
rence’s unevenness as a writer, but with
an even stronger impression of his con-
sistency. His unevenness is only too obvious
a fault; his consistency is an illusion, and
would not necessarily be a virtue even if
it were a fact. It is a curious paradox that
Mr. Daleski’s very devoted and systematic
adherence to Lawrence’s words actually
has the effect of softening their impact.
The fault is not one of understanding, but
of perspective, and I am apprehensive
not about what Mr. Daleski does, but
about the effect of what he does. The
novels sink under the weight of his com-
mentary upon them. To say as much as
this is to do less than justice to the
contemplation, reasoning, and responsive-
ness that have gone into Mr. Daleski’s
study; to say less would be to acquiesce
in the process whereby criticism of litera-
ture becomes so particular and lengthy a
process that the works which are its
subject are overwhelmed by the very
efficiency of its methods,
Lawrence, of course, will survive. He
does survive, and in many ways benefits
by Mr. Daleski’s examination. The ques-
tion is, what will happen to those readers
who might decide to read “The Forked
Flame” before reading Lawrence?
Names
'Even a limited success,
One’s name not actually up in lights,
Is enough to cut it loose from one, more or less,
Leaving one like a tree without a shade,
Form without substance somehow, somehow
Projected on the flux but never made.
Or is it rather substance without form?
One’s days huddle like sheep,
Presumably attempting to keep warm,
While at the showgrounds, showing
Its paces off with one or two frightened ewes,
One’s name is knowing.
Names, in the last resort, are private magic.
Pity then those whose names are torn off for trade-names,
Like shell-less snails, pathetic, hardly tragic.
Were I to start all over now, I dare
Say that I’d take a pen-name from the start,
Like C. Day Lewis or Walter de la Mare.
EVAN JONES
Camus and His Art
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Carnets. Albert Camus. Hamish Hamilton.
$4.60.
ORIGINALLY written in exercise-books
from 1942 to 1951, this second
volume of Camus’ “Carnets” covers
the period of his greatest writing (he won
the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1957)
and comes near to lifting the last barrier
between writer and reader, in that evolv-
ing and processing of thought which an
author usually keeps jealously for him-
self is revealed step by step. To study
these notes is to share in the moment of
creation; first comes the germ of an idea
which is registered in two cryptic lines;
then it gradually takes on form and
shape, passing, perhaps, through several
permutations; and finally it blossoms into
the major work we know,
It comes as something of a shock to see
what difficulties Camus had with the writ-
ing of “The Plague” (1947). He refuses
to accept the inevitability of the final mould
of any masterpiece, contending that chance
plays a large part in the exact shape of a
work. He rewrote this novel many times
over a number of, years, coming close to
despair as he ruthlessly jettisoned char-
acters, changed the original form, which


MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Have your favorite magazines
posted to you and enjoy the
convenience of home delivery. We
can arranges subscription to any
magazinp you require. Write or
phone for our big price lists
featuring all the well-known
magazines, classified under such
subject headings as Pictorials,
Hobbies, Business, etc. If possible,
advise the name of magazine or
subject you are interested in.
JOHN HINTON PTY. LTD.
118 Wiliam Street,
NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: 92-5904 (3 lines)
(When you reply please quote "Dept. 22")
was first to be a diary, and in the end even
expanding the allegorical meaning.
“The Plague” was intended primarily as
a study in separation when he began, “an
attempt to put a collective passion into
form.” It explodes a number of theories to
read that the moral political issues came
only much later and also incidentally
serves validly to refute Simone de Beau-
voir’s accusations against Camus in “Force
of Circumstances” in this respect. Early,
he notes that what the isolated people lack
is imagination, that they are unable to
think on the scale of plagues, that they
approach the situation as if on a picnic and
“the remedies they think up are barely
suitable for a cold in the nose.”
At this period, of course, Camus was
also at work on “The Rebel” (1951), a
long series of major essays, in which he
tries to understand our own time. “When
crime puts on the apparel of innocence,”
he writes, “through a curious reversal
peculiar to our age, it is innocence that is
called on to justify itself.” In order to
discover how we arrived at mid-century
disillusionment, he looks back at the past
which shaped it, examining in turn our
heritage of metaphysical, historical, and
artistic rebellion.
Notes on his preparatory reading for this
appear everywhere and cover a very wide
field, ranging from Shakespeare to Shelley
and Graham Greene, and from Dostoevsky
to Simone Weil. This can be disconcerting
and sometimes one has to shake off the
feeling by opening an intellectual party-
cracker,,
One recognises rhe first steps that were
to lead to Camus’ next novel, “The Fall”
(1956), a study in individual guilt which
the reader gradually comes to realise is
also his own. Many of the phrases are
immediately recognisable as Clamence’s
later monologue, for example, “Eighty per-
cent of 20th-century authors, if only they
could get out of signing, would write and
pav homage to the name of God.”
There is very little of a personal nature
in these “Carnets,” except for an occa-
sional wry remark about the number of
tablets consumed or the address of a re-
sort where Camus had gone to fight off a
recurrence of tuberculosis. However, the
translator, Philip Thody, has attached some
useful biographical notes and a commen-
tary to fill in the gaps, from Camus’ birth
in French North Africa in 1913 to his
death in 1960. What emerges is the author’s
insistence on complete freedom. He re-
signed his famous editorship of “Combat”
when it could no longer remain financially
independent; in order never to have to
write books for money he always kept a
job. Once he comments, “You will lose
your good name, they tell me ... I should
certainly hope so, if that is what it is made
of.”
These diaries also confirm the assumption
that Camus himself had divided his pub-
lished writing into three periods. Two
more were already planned, including an-
other large-scale novel and an “unper-
formable play” in the fifth period. There
are also signs which point toward the
letting down of all those deliberately
erected barriers in order to write at last
whatever came into his head. In two places
there is a cryptic heading “No tomorrow”
over his entries, one of which was added
much later, according to the editors. And
on the final page one cannot overlook a
remark that now reads like a prophecy, “I
sometimes wanted a violent death ... a
death in which you would be forgiven for
screaming as the soul was torn from you
. , .” Camus was working on a new novel,
the last of his third period, “The First
Man,” when he died in a car accident.
Kingsley Amis’ Grotesques
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
The Anti-Death League. Kingsley Amis.
Gollancz. $3.85.
THIS book arrives in a glossy black
cover on which are arranged the
photographed debris of a broken
champagne laottle, spent cartridges, a
mangled gasmask, cigarette butts, crumpl-
ed papers, and a boot. Fiercely spotlighted
against the black background some frail,
purple flowers, primulas, I think, are
struggling to establish themselves amongst
the rubble.
The ingredients of the novel are a mili-
tary establishment, one or two spies, a
pink, hairless psychiatrist who is rather
short on sanity, and a nymphomaniac
titled lady who helps many of the mem-
bers of the military establishment to keep
a clean bill of mental health. There is
also a romance in which a charming, sen-
sitive young officer falls in love with a
pale, hazel-eyed divorcee who has just been
let out of a lunatic asylum, and together,
as Lady Hazell puts it, they do each other
a lot of good. This salubrious relationship
almost terminates itself when breast can-
cer raises an ugly lump. However, tragedy
is averted by the doctor’s knife, and not
even the aesthetic appeal of the breast is
much affected, thanks to early detection
because of her lover’s keen and observant
explorations.
The plot meanwhile unwinds with
obscure sinuosities and murky adumbra-
tions. An Anti-Death League is formed,
but no one knows who the founder is.
And the league never gets off its feet, but
it proves a security headache, for, as one
officer puts it, “It’s our job to be pro-
death, Leonard, and don’t you forget
it.” During the course of the narrative,
hints are dropped about a mysterious
sticky end for which all the militia are
headed, namely Operation Apollo.
Mr. Amis sustains suspense by the
resourceful device of refusing to give the
reader even the remotest idea of what this
operation is or of what is happening in
several of the associated sub-plots. The
artificiality of this device is increased by
the fact that most of the main characters
know what is happening, and the reader
is permitted to know most of the intimate
details of their lives, but all explanation
of the nature of “Operation Apollo’’ is
carefully expunged. However, the device
is legitimate in a burlesque, such as this,
and results in most of the sub-plots run-
ning together with a pop at the end, as
the novel finishes with a couple of absurd
tussles while the characters dust each other
over, some minor atomic flashes, and a
general unmasking.
One suspects that Mr. Amis may have
his eye on film rights. This story would
step out of its novel format as easily as
its characters step out of their clothes to
get hungrily into bed with each other.
The book contains some quite amusing
and intelligent post-Waugh humor. An
earnest padre discovers a trio-sonata by
an obscure 18th-century composer who
bears the delightful name of “Roug-
head.” The final crack-up and mad scene
of Dr. Best, the insane psychiatrist, is also
very enjoyable.
On occasions, though, the plot creaks.
The book begins with a cat stalking a
bird and then a couple of people die by
accident. A character explains this by a
theory that you move into a period when
people are likely to die, a death-node.
Such a node may begin with one or two
minor deaths, then there may be some
major deaths or a catastrophe such as the
projected “Operation Apollo.” One only
moves out of the node when a minor death
occurs to complete the node. In the novel
the node is happily completed when the
padre’s dog, Nancy, thoroughly revolted
by the strains of the Roughead trio sonata
coming from inside the church, slips her
collar and runs out on to the road to be
run over in the last paragraph.
I find this schemata and the idea of
an anti-death league rather labored. The


leumiq
**
vE
TODAYVi
lESIGN FOR)
rOMORROW' si
IOME MOVIES'
EUMIG’S superb Mark S
(S for Sound) 8 mm.
projector brings a new
concept in ease of
operation to movie
projection.
For literature contact:
R. Gunz (Photo) Pty. Ltd.,
24 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
learn
to write stories
that sell
Stott’s can train you to write for
magazines, newspapers, television
and radio. Stott’s is Australia’s most
famous and respected Correspon-
dence College. You will learn the
techniques of professional freelance
writing under expert, personal
tuition from successful authors.
Enrol now. Mail the coupon for free
particulars of these high quality
home-study courses: Short story
writing, Freelance journalism, TV
script writing, Radio script writing,
Verse writing.
Stolls
TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 383
George St., Sydney. 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. 45 Gilles St., Adelaide. 1130
Hay St., Perth.
FILL IN THIS COUPON & POST NOW
Please send your literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
Age
I understand that no Sales Rep. will call.
8166
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
apologist could, of course, exclaim that it
is part of the burlesque; however, I sus-
pect that the author wishes to be a weeny
bit profound. This book is a fair way from
Amis at his best, and as a satirist he lacks
the savagery and vision of a Waugh to
bring off a protest against death. He lacks
indignation and becomes rather like the
man protesting against the foam-rubber
mattress which he is lying on.
Death arrives enjoyably between sump-
tuous black covers amongst broken cham-
pagne bottles, and the kissing does not
stop.
Strangers and Brothers
By SYBILLE SMITH
Dog Years. Gunter Grass. Seeker and War-
burg. $5.30,
IT is a measure of Gunter Grass’ inven-
tiveness that in his new novel, “Dog
Years,” he has returned to the setting,
period, and idiom of his earlier book,
“The Tin Drum,” without seeming
repetitive. Nevertheless, “Dog Years”
comes off second best.
The ingredients which gave “The Tin
Drum” its unique flavor are here: surreal-
ist fantasy, grotesque symbolism, scurrility,
and virtuoso cadenzas of language. Here,
though, these elements tend to be less
compelling than before.
“Dog Years” covers a period roughly
from 1917 to 1957, tracing the develop-
ment of two friends and blood-brothers,
Teutonic Walter Matern and half-Jewish
Eduard Amsel, during the rise of Nazism,
the war years, the collapse of Germany,
post-war recovery, and present prosperity.
Their attitudes and patterns of be-
haviour formed in childhood recur un-
altered, but with graver consequences, in
the context of adult life and new political
situations. The basic traits of Eddi’s per-
sonality his brilliance, his ironic de-
tachment, his inability to take offence
arouse in the mediocre and passionate
Walter protective admiration alternating
envious rage. As a boy Walter shields
( r 0“ h,s ,o ™ e " tors ‘■“‘attacks hurt
’ t,\ f P n ™ P"!
P ers «““°". b “‘ ■<** * *° b «“
U ”'
The work’s richness and subtlety come
from the revelation that apparently con-
? i . cti "« a . s P e “ °‘ Penalty can be inex-
tricably linked. This is a study of ambi-
valencev a delkate bi 0 y ( attitudes
and m^tives Walter protects Eddi from
others but reserves the right to betray him
himself. But it is not only to Eddi but
to Germany itself that Walter has this
love-hate relationship Germany sym-
bolised in three generations of German
shepherd dogs which give the novel its
title and form its central image. The first,
owned and loved by Walter as a child,
has to be destroyed when it becomes in-
sane; Walter poisons the second when it
comes to personify for him the fanatic-
ism and cruelty of Nazism to which he
himself had briefly succumbed; and the
third, owned by Hitler, flees to the West
when Germany is defeated, to find in
Walter a new master,
Grass reveals his characters without
analytical comment or direct statement.
The vast scope and complexity of the
novel are necessary to show the charac-
ters in their natural habitat.
Self-observation
The big foreign fellow with a lame-stick who
talked his way into my boss’
office and talked his way out with a cheque
for forty-three quid
for a set of touched-up
art prints, who came again and again
and talked his way through into
sanctum sanctorum
paying with a one-way
philosophico-political opinionation,
now tells me when he sees me
that my boss is changed,
a changed man “now he is rich
and successful” . . .
from which I gather he was told
to b—r off. The man
actually challenged me
to a duel . . . swords, pistols . . . because,
getting impatient myself
when told how master-prints
elevate the soul . . .
suggested I’d rather have
bad originals than prints,
and cheap prints touched up
with poster paints
are an abomination,
rather like trying to improve
Bach with a tin whistle
and a kiddies’ kettle-drum.
It took me six
months of cheerful good-mornings
to obliterate the insult.
Today I said, “You’re looking well . . .”
“Yoost flattery!” . . .
“You are a cynic!” . . . “Hey!
one thing, sir, I’ve learned is that
we are blind to our own worst fault
even when we see that fault
very clearly in someone else.” “Ja,”
says he, “You are right,” and
nodding significantly in the direction
of my generous-hearted
boss’ office where five
bowdlerised old masters hang on the wall,
“a man
is his own vorst enemy!”
W. HART-SMITH.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Precisely Wrong
A THOROUGH inquiry into the very basis of life assurance
in Australia is well overdue. Every year, life offices pay
out to their policyholders (who in most cases are also
their owners) what they judge they have earned on the policy-
holders’ money over the many years they have had it. But
their failure to do two most important things has meant that
generations of policyholders have been shockingly underpaid as
the life offices themselves have become fatter and fatter.
In the first place, the life offices have not given to their
policyholders their share of the increased value of the assets
they hold and, in the second place, they have failed to take
into account the fact that a pound paid in by a policyholder
twenty years ago is worth much more than the pound being
paid out by the life office today. Yet the industry as a whole
can see nothing wrong with its policy of robbing present policy-
holders to pay future ones, for this is what their approach
means in uncomplicated language.
And it means big money. In the past 20 years, the value of
money and the value of property and shares have together
probably moved at an even faster rate than the growth of
income from investments, which is all that goes to policyholders.
Naturally life offices would resist any suggestion about using
a more realistic measure of valuing assets and distributing what
rightly belongs to policyholders. The present system not only
helps insulate the industry from the incursions of new companies
which would have to pay far more for comparable assets than
the old offices have managed to do through years of underpaying
their policyholders; further, a continued understatement of
assets can in many cases be a cloak for incompetence.
If there is a convincing defence of the way life assurance
companies deliberately understate their assets every year, it was
not contained anywhere in last week’s statement by the chairman
of the City Mutual Life Assurance Co., Mr. M. J. O’Neill.
In his chairman’s address last week, Mr. O’Neill replied to
criticism that his company did not give its policyholders suf-
ficient information as to their affairs by saying: “We freely
admit that on December 31, 1965, our assets were worth more
than the amount shown in the balance sheet. This is, of course,
inevitable. The figure for our properties is based upon cost,
and without a doubt our properties are worth today many
times their cost. Our office furniture and equipment have been
shown as nil, having been fully written off. Our shares, par-
ticularly the ordinary shares, were, we know, worth on the
market, as' at the balance date, considerably more than the
figures shown, which are based on their cost less proper pro-
visions. To have our assets, included at market values on the
balance date would involve us annually in heavy expenditure
for special valuations which would not be warranted.
“Our obligations to our policyholders are long term and over
a long term market values are likely to vary considerably
downward as well as upward. So long as we are absolutely
certain, as we are, that the assets are not worth less than the
values in the balance sheet we do not feel that there is, at this
stage at any rate, any advantage in having special valuations
made.”
The staggering lack of appreciation of the basis of mutual
life assurance implied in these statements is, unfortunately,
widespread through the industry. The assets these companies
MEN AND MATTERS
TWENTY-SIX years ago an Italian
textile expert who had come to Aus-
tralia started up a small business in
Rushcutters Bay and took a 33-year-old
Hungarian into the firm. But two years
later they split up when the Hungarian
went into the Army and business was
terrible, anyhow. Then in August of 1945,
the Hungarian, Emery Yass, was demobi-
lised and decided to set up his own textile
finishing operation in what he terms
“friendly competition” with his old boss,
the late Hamilcar Alcorso and his sons
Claude and Orlando.
Last week the textile businesses they
started, and which have grown into large
public companies, decided to get together
again and merge into an $ll.B million
major unit in the Australian textile in-
dustry.
The little business in Rushcutters Bay
that the Alcorso family started has blos-
somed into the large and highly integrated
textile weaver, dyer, printer, and mer-
chandiser STP Holdings Ltd., and Mr.
Yass’ operations have grown into the
smaller but prospering Tennyson Textile
(Holdings) Ltd., which follows a similar
line m slightly different products in Syd-
ney.
Although the merger of both these tex-
tiles into one holding company (leaving
the operating companies as separate
entities) will bring many direct advan-
tages to both, to some extent it merely
formalises the con-
tinuing friendship
and understanding
that has existed be-
tween the top men in
these two companies.
Mr. Claude Alcorso,
who now runs STP,
has always joined
with Mr. Yass in
submitting cases to
the Tariff Board, and
Mr. O. A. Kaldor, who last year sold his
textile merchandising group, Sekers Silk,
to STP and became an STP director, is
one of Mr. Yass’ best and oldest friends
in Australia.
FOR most of June, one of Britain’s
most important and impressive mer-
chant bankers, Mr. Gordon Richard-
son, was quietly looking at first hand into
what was going on in Australia. What he
decided he is keeping to himself; no
pressmen got near him to find out, and
the local merchant banking group, in
which he has a substantial interest,
Darling and Co., were not saying, either.
But there can be no denying the signifi-
cance of this first Australian visit of the
tall, hawk-nosed, angular-faced 50-year-
old chairman of the powerful and influen-
tial J. Henry Schroeder Wagg and Co. At
a time when the U.K. Government is
making it hard for British capital to come
here (and when British capital has, never-
Gordon Richardson
Claude Alcorso
Emery Yass
theless, been coming at a rate never before
exceeded), the role of Australia as a home
for British investment is clearly in ques-
tion. No doubt the energetic, no-pussy-
footing-around approach of Mr. Richard-
son means that he will be already in a
position to make some determined de-
cisions about Australia and he saw a
lot of it, including the big developments
in the West.
Gordon Richardson is not a typical city
man by any means. Trained as a lawyer,
he read at Caius College, Cambridge, after
schooling in Nottingham, served in the
Army, spent five years on the Bar Council
before putting the city ahead of silk, and
became a director of J. Henry Schroeder
in 1957. Five years later he became chair-
man. He is also vice-chairman of Lloyds
Bank and the Legal and General Assurance
Co. One of his more interesting roles was
as a member of the famed Jenkins Com-
mittee on company law.


hold belong to their policyholders—their present policyholders
and these are the people who should benefit from these
increased values.
The suggestion that it would be too costly to revalue regu-
larly is unreal: five cents buys a daily newspaper in which the
price of the millions of pounds of undervalued shares held by
life offices are all conveniently listed; an actuarial formula
related to rents would easily provide a useful if rough guide to
the valuation of buildings held by life offices without involving
costly revaluations. In this case it would be for the better to
be roughly right than precisely wrong. If the life offices are
concerned that fluctuating values of assets could mean a policy-
holder getting less one year than he would have received the
year before, the solution would be simply to have a five-year
moving average of valuations that could reduce such variations
considerably.
And if the life offices do not consider that the question of
changing values of money is important in company accounting,
then it seems unfortunate that attendance at last weekend’s
14th annual congress of the Australian Chartered Accountants’
Research Society was not compulsory for directors of life assur-
ance companies. In any event, there should be no objection
to some sort of official investigation into these questions as
they affect life assurance, for the industry owes a large part
of its present size to the tax benefits allowed on life assurance
premiums, rather than to any recognition by the public that the
life offices are playing the game.
Brewers Down in the Mouth?
THE drought must be really bad if it’s forcing Australians
to drink less beer, and in the city as well as the country.
But this is what’s happening, at least in New South Wales.
Both Tooheys and Tooths have noticed reduced sales, particularly
in the months since March.
N.S.W., the most drought-affected State, has clearly been the
laggard in actual beer output, with production down 3.4 percent
in the ten months to April against an overall Australian rise
of 2.5 percent.
The brewers’ general reactions have been variable. Tooth’s
chairman, Mr. R. J. Vicars, last week talked of a difficult
period during 1966-67, backing his remarks by mentioning there
were 62 hotel licences available in the “pool” compared with
41 a year ago. Victoria’s sole brewer, Carlton and United,
earned slightly lower profit in the December half-year on
higher sales, but expects the full year to equal 1964-65’s result.
South Australia and Western Australia sound a good deal
more optimistic after buoyant profits. Indeed Swan Brewery
chairman, Mr. J. Cohen, speaks cheerfully of increased sales
in almost every sphere of activity, due largely, it seems, to the
remarkable amount of development in W.A. that employs large
numbers of thirsty workers.
Despite some drought, no complaints came from Queensland’s
Castlemaine Perkins, which joyfully calls attention to higher
profits from climbing sales.
Whatever their various misgivings, all the brewers are united
in continuous development for the future. Even Mr. Vicars
had to tell of provisions for further expansion in output. And
part of Carlton and United’s lower result came from “costs
associated with large development works in progress.”
Drought effects may not be as traditional as the normally
thirsty Australian would expect, and may, of course, go on
for a little longer. But brewers agree on the long-term future.
Investors in the bigger breweries mostly support this attitude,
which has been given a decided emphasis by Tooth general
manager, Mr. Tom Watson: “Your shares now are virtually
certificates for gold, they are certificates of value and security
and can be exchanged into ready funds on any market.”
Horsfall's Melbourne
J. C. HORSFALL’S Melbourne does not appear this week
as Mr. Horsfall is in New Zealand. He is there making
a first-hand examination of New Zealand’s uncertain
economic and investment situation following the recent Budget
and suspension of trading in Australian shares. His report and
comments will appear in next week’s Bulletin.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
FOr the economy ; May’s statistics for industrial
production looked rather patchy. Pig-iron and steel out-
puts held to their advance; car bodies and chassis
moved up slightly on April, but more obviously down
on the previous May; washing machines and refrigera-
tors gained a little, as did bricks, though not other
building supplies.
Yet building has started to reflect official stimulus,
May house and flat approvals jumping well above April
and rising also on May, 1965; more factories, offices,
and shops were also approved . . . The year to April
saw the work force rise by 3.1 percent; 0.7 percent of
the rise went into manufacturing.
Another 600,000 tons of wheat valued at some $3O
million, will go to Communist China . . . Mr. Stani-
forth Ricketson advocates raising the embargo on
foreign banking operations in Australia.
For the markets: B.H.P. clearly underpinned all
(or any) upward index movements among industrial
sections on Australian share markets last week; it has
been doing this for quite a while. Some tendency for
a few other leading issues to join in became mildly
apparent toward the close, but the impetus didn’t
spread very far. It’s hardly necessary to mention that
oils and metals keep a high speculative interest; a less
carefree attitude, however, begins to appear.
Nudging the index peak almost preoccupies London.
Still, caution is induced by the seamen’s strike and
leaders trade irregularly; second liners are sought amid
a scrip shortage . . . Somewhat erratic trading marks
Wall Street, once more on somewhat contracted volumes.
For companies: Financing development takes the
spotlight, naturally dominated by B.H.P.’s projected
issue of debentures. These are to be offered to existing
share and debenture holders in September; no
specific entitlements will attach. Development here now
includes steelmaking, iron ore, oil, and gas . . . More
than $lO million is required by Peko-Wallsend Invest-
ments for a fifth copper-gold mine at Tennant Creek;
funds are not needed from shareholders (see article
on page 53) . . . Western Mining Corporation is plan-
ning a rights issue, previously foreshadowed, and mean-
while pays a steady dividend; W.M.C. also wishes to
explore Warburton Range (W.A.) copper.
All parties concerned in the suggested sharing of
the Mount Newman iron ore project meet in Japan
soon . . . Esso-B.H.P.’s Gippsland Shelf No. 5 well did
not strike oil after early gas indications.
Two textilers, S.T.P. Holdings and Tennyson Textile
(Holding), propose to merge, forming a S2J million
group . . . A. J. Chown and Email are merging their
fractional h.p. motor, fan, and exhaust systems interests
. . . On top of a record 1965-66 profit, furniture maker
Fler recommends Australian Controls’ takeover bid.
Merely steady profits are being earned by hardware
retailer Nock and Kirby on an “encouraging increase”
in sales ... No lift in sales will happen for Australian
Chemical Holdings; the year’s earnings will go “well
down.”
Melbourne financier General Credits fully confirms
recovery by a peak $894,562 profit in the year to April
. . . Brewer Tooth feels it is facing a difficult period
during 1966-67 . . . Swan Brewery’s sales increased in
“almost every sphere of activity,” so earnings rose
15 percent to $1,873,543.
Stanhill Development Finance (in liquidation) is
claiming $3,412,107 from Stanley Korman and five other
directors . . . New Zealand’s Crown Law Office has
asked for an order to investigate Holeproof Industries,
subsidiary of Factors Ltd.


A temple of
gold dust
The Ruvanveli Saya or gold
dust temple, when built in
B.C. 144, had in its relic
chamber priceless jewels
and a golden image of the
Buddha on a golden throne.
The majestic splendour of
this dagoba can be
admired even today after
2000 years.
In an ancient land, a modern banking service
The Bank of Ceylon, controlling over half the total bank
deposits in Ceylon, offers a modern and up-to-date
banking service including Intelligence Reports, Credit
Information, financing of exports and imports, and every
type of foreign exchange transaction.
In their trade relations with Ceylon, enterprising exporters
and importers can depend on the Bank of Ceylon.
OF
gtoi*®
London Office: 48/54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Foreign Dept.: York Street, Colombo 1.
Central Office: 41 Bristol Street, Colombo.
BANK OF CEYLON
32 Banking Offices in Ceylon.
5 Pay Offices.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Industry's Hopes and Fears
THE survey of industrial trends carried
out each three months by the
. Chamber of Manufactures and the
Bank of N.S.W. is a very valuable ven-
ture. Questionnaires go out to a pretty
representative sample of about 500 manu-
facturing firms, asking them about forty
questions on the state of business and
their expectations for the future.
As with all such surveys the answers
are bound to be impressionistic. Some
respondents will think of “the general
business situation” very much in terms of
the prosperity of their own industry, while
others may be more influenced by the
fortunes of the Stock Exchange, the level
of unemployment, Government pronounce-
ments, or even what they read in the
Press. Different people will be answering
different questions. There are other obvious
objections. The survey is far too demo-
cratic an affair one man one vote; so
GMH, though obviously immensely more
significant than the 15-man show assem-
bling prams behind a shop in the suburbs,
counts for no more in the survey.
So the results have to be taken with the
proverbial grains of salt and not too much
significance attached to variations of a
few percent here and there. But having
invoked one of the statistician’s articles of
faith that we can rely on a goodly pro-
portion of the mistakes in such data can-
celling one another out it makes sense
to take the results seriously.
There is one important test you can
apply and that is to look back over the
results, pick out major discontinuities in
the answers, and see whether they fit in
with what we know independently.-1 have
the results of surveys back to late 1964
and they perform pretty well in reflecting
and anticipating movements in the
economy which have since been measured
in official statistics. Thus the economic
flutters which appeared in September of
last year, the sharp rise in unemployment,
the collapse in car sales and housing, were
clearly anticipated in the July survey,
In May, businessmen expecting an im-
provement in the business situation were
three times as numerous as the “bears,”
but by July, 1965, the position had been
completely reversed. In the first survey
shortages of labor were as important in
limiting production as shortages of orders,
but by July orders had become the most
important restraint for a clear majority
of firms and less than a quarter were
being held back by lack of labor. For the
first time, too, there was a really big dis-
crepancy between what businessmen re-
ported had happened to stocks of finished
goods and what they had predicted would
happen in the previous survey. Close to
twice as many reported an increase in
stocks as had previously predicted an in-
crease. In other words, there had been
some unjustified optimism, overproduction,
and the accumulation of unwanted stocks,
The sharp lurches in the economy
which followed bore out the interpretation
which the July, 1965, survey suggested,
So it can be said that it has passed a his-
torical test very well and thus warrants
recognition as a useful tool for analysing
what is going on in the economy. What,
then, is to be gleaned from the latest
survey?
The Press statement issued with the
publication of the survey led off with the
news that businessmen are more optimistic
about the general business outlook than
they were three months ago. And so the
figures show. Twice as many think things
will get better as think |hey will get worse,
whereas, before Christmas, bulls were out-
numbered by bears. Not that there seems
in the survey much ground for this new-
found optimism. Fewer than ever report
they are operating at a satisfactory rate
of production and three-quarters of the
respondents say production schedules are
being held down more by a lack of
orders than by anything else; at the be-
ginning of last year labor shortages and
a lack of plant capacity were more
important. And there is nothing encourag-
ing about new orders: they are on the
down for more firms. Overtime continues
to be cut back.
The only source for encouragement
would appear to be in the stocks situa-
tion. Right through last year businessmen
were saying in their answers that they
“expected” not to add to stocks, and
toward the end that they “expected” to
reduce them. In fact, as subsequent
surveys and* national accounts statistics
showed, their expectations and we
might add their intentions were not
realised. (Only last week we noted the
huge rise in stocks recorded in the March
quarter national income accounts.)
:r pHERE are two significant things about
the June ACMA-Wales survey in this
context. First it suggests that in the past
three months the stock build-up has been
halted. Second, for the three months
ahead, businessmen do not on balance
“expect” and, we can say, intend, any
further rundown. This is certainly a very
concrete bull factor in the current eco-
nomic situation, though whether it is the
reason for the renewed optimism of
businessmen we do not know. Perhaps that
is the result of quite different things: the
recovery of housebuilding and motor sales,
anticipation of a giveaway budget, and so
on.
Of course there are innumerable and
intriguing feedbacks. Mr. McMahon may,
with Treasury encouragement, be inclined
to make his Budget less generous than
otherwise because of the survey itself.
There is not much else to go on! He then
should note that there remain plenty of
bearish signs in the survey: most per-
tinently, a clear majority of businessmen
say their firms will be reducing their
capital spending in the year ahead. Of
course, they have been saying this since
the middle of last year, but it is just
beginning to come through clearly in the
value of projects approved by local
government authorities.
It is also being shown up in sales of
commercial motor vehicles. Car and
station wagon sales, which are of course
dominated by householders, have recovered
exceedingly well from the short-lived
slump of September-October last year. On
the latest statistics they are’ funning &
good 90 percent of the peak rates of 1965,
and better than 1964. On the other hand,
commercial vehicles are selling at only 80
percent of the best 1965 rate and below
the 1964 best rate, too.
There are some neat sums to be done.


Companies Acts —The Other Side
Are basic and essential rights being whittled away?
By PETER CLYNE, LL.B.
AS the modern State becomes more
complex,” the Chief Justice of
N.S.W. (Sir Leslie Herron) said in
a recent speech, “and the interventions of
Government more frequent, considera-
tions of easier administration or more ex-
peditious action are too frequently allowed
to override private rights.” His Honor’s
warning reflects what the late Mr. Justice
Frankfurter, of the U.S. Supreme Court,
said fourteen years ago, in On Lee v.
United States (343 U.S. 747): “Loose talk
about war against crime too easily infuses
the administration of justice with the
psychology and morals of war.” These
thoughts have become disturbingly relevant
when one begins to think about develop-
ments in Australian company law.
Some of the basic rights hitherto re-
garded as essential to our conceptions of
justice have been whittled away by the
uniform company legislation introduced
throughout Australia in 1961.
What really happens when a public
company begins to founder? To begin
with, the Governor has power to conduct
a “special investigation.” He “declares”
the company to be one which merits
investigation and appoints an individual
with the ominous title of “inspector.” This
should not happen unless he “is satisfied
that a prima facie case has been estab-
lished,” i.e., a prima facie case that an
investigation would be in the public in-
terest or that allegations of fraud or mis-
feasance should be investigated.
The very act of declaring the foundering
vessel will sink it on the spot, in view' of
the publicity involved. Yet the declaration
is made behind closed doors, and neither
the company nor the individuals to be
investigated are given any warning, or any
chance to answer what is alleged against
them, or to contend that the declaring
order should not be made. The Supreme
Court has been compelled to hold that at
this stage they have no rights whatever
(Collier-Garland Properties Pty. Ltd. v.
O’Hair. 80 W.N. 768).
QNCE the inspector has been appointed,
his powers are almost unlimited. He
may seize and impound the company’s
books. He may question its bankers, solici-
tors, and auditors. Solicitors retain their
privilege and need not divulge confidential
information, but no such privilege is re-
tained by bankers or auditors. Finally, and
this, of course, is his main raison d’etre,
he may interrogate anyone who “is capable
of giving information concerning the pro-
motion, formation, trading, dealings,
affairs, or property of the corporation,”
or whom he reasonably suspects of being
able to give such information. He is
entitled to examine witnesses on oath, and
they have the right to choose between
three courses of action. They may lie to
him, in which case they will go to prison
for perjury. They may tell the truth, in
which case what they say will be used
against them later. Or they may refuse
to answer, in which case they may be sent
to prison for contempt of court; for life,
theoretically.
Normally, when a suspected criminal is
questioned by the police, even on a charge
THE BULLETIN prints this
article not because it supports Mr.
Clyne’s views but because it con-
siders they should be discussed.
of murder, he is entitled to remain silent
if he believes that his answers might in-
criminate him. Our system of justice is
built on the fundamental belief that no
man should be compelled to prove his own
guilt. Yet we have abandoned this belief
so far as company investigations are con-
cerned; company suspects are compelled to
answer incriminating questions, although
their answers cannot be used against them
if they object to each question. Now this
questioning often goes on for weeks at a
time. It is usually conducted by a skilled
Queen’s Counsel. And the person who is
being interrogated has no right to be
legally represented. Yet his answers can
be used against him unless, in answer to
each separate question, he utters the magic
incantation: “I don’t want to answer this
question because the answer might in-
criminate me” and then answers the ques-
tion just the same!
If he slips up and forgets to utter the
magic formula, he has admitted his guilt
and convicted himself. And it should be
noted that whilst a police constable ques-
tioning Burglar Bill about why he is wan-
dering about with- a bag full of burglars’
tools has to warn him that he is not obliged
to answer, no such caution has to be ad-
ministered by an inspector interrogating
company suspects. If they fail to walk
the tight-rope correctly, that’s their bad
luck. And, of course, even if they do walk
it successfully, so that their answers cannot
be used against them as such, they have
probably helped to establish their guilt
in other ways. Thus a vital privilege
which we accord to every suspected mur-
derer, rapist, and thug has been taken
away from those who are suspected of a
company fraud. It is by no means the only
one.
The inspector’s activities constitute
much more than an investigation designed
to unearth facts. His report has a direct
effect on the future existence of the com-
pany he is investigating and on the reputa-
tion and freedom of the people he is
questioning in at least three ways:
1. If his report is adverse, its publica-
tion will mean the end so far as the com-
pany is concerned. It will also ensure that
anyone charged with a criminal offence
will be gravely prejudiced by the inspec-
tor’s published opinions.
2. The company can be wound up com-
pulsorily. This can normally happen only
if the Court is satisfied that the company
is insolvent. But the new legislation makes
the inspector’s opinion a ground for wind-
ing up, so that the company can be legally
wiped off the slate simply because in the
inspector’s opinion it is insolvent and
should be wound up.
3. “In any legal proceedings,” the Acts
go on to provide, the report is evidence
not only of the inspector’s opinion but “of
the facts upon which his opinion is based.”
So, if the inspector reports that the com-
pany ought to be wound up because the
directors have embezzled a million dollars,
and the directors are then charged with
embezzlement, the inspector’s statement is
evidence of their guilt. Anyone else
charged with crime has at least the pre-
sumption of innocence in his favor. The
law presumes him to be innocent until he
is proved guilty. But anyone at whom the
inspector’s finger is pointed must be pre-
sumed to be guilty and assumes the burden
of having to prove his innocence.
I T would be thought, therefore, that in
view of the various ways in which the
investigation can damage or destroy those
who are being investigated, Parliament
would have made sure that it should be
conducted in accordance with elementary
rules of fairness and natural justice. Pro-
vision might have been made that both
company and witnesses should have a right
to be legally represented; that they should
be told exactly what is alleged against
them, and that they should have a chance
to confront their accusers and to marshal
and present their defence.
Normally, our law respects certain basic
rules which are known as rules of natural
justice. These are rooted in the simple
notion that you should give both sides a
fair hearing before you decide against one
of them. As an English Master of the
Rolls put it many years ago, a tribunal
“ought not . . . according to the ordinary
rules by which justice should be adminis-
tered by committees of clubs, or by any
other body of persons who decide upon
the conduct of others, to blast a man’s
reputation for ever, perhaps to ruin his
prospects for life, without giving him an
opportunity of either defending or palli-
ating his conduct” (per Lord Jessel M.R.
in Fisher v. Keane, 1878, 11 Ch. D. 353
at 362-3).
Yet these basic rights, which the law


= i
You don’t have
to be a top wine
and food group
to hold
a function at
Chevron
But you’ll be treated like one
Chevron just can’t help it. Over the
years, it’s been so used to hosting lead-
ing wine and food organisations, inter-
national gourmets and hoteliers, that
the expertise shows through. Chevron
caters for groups of 8 to 800, from as
little as $2.25 a head. Finest in foods,
wines and service. Don’t gamble on
the success of your functions. Hold
them at Chevron. Connoisseurs do!
Before arranging your next business or
social function call on the experience
of the banquet manager.
Chevron
SYDNEY
Macleay St., Potts Pt., Sydney. Phone 35-0433
FOR PROMPT BOOKINGS—ADELAIDE: Hotel Australia, 6-BSBI (Telex 82174); MELBOURNE:
Chevron 51-1281; BRISBANE: Hotel Carlton, 2-2941; SYDNEY. Chevron 35-0433 (Telex AA20489)
takes for granted when anyone is charged
with a parking offence or threatened with
expulsion from his golf club, have been
taken away from those who are faced with
ruin in the course of a company investiga-
tion. Parliament has taken care to omit
any guarantee of such rights from its legis-
lation, and desperate attempts to have
them established by legal action have
failed so far.
The Supreme Court of Victoria has
held that the rules of natural justice do
not apply to a special inspector, so that
he need not allow those he investigates
to be represented by counsel and need not
give them a chance to confront their ac-
cusers or to meet the case that is being
made against them ( R. v. Cop pel: ex
parte Viney Industries Pty. Ltd., 1962
V.R. 630). This decision was later fol-
lowed by a narrow majority of three
judges to two in the High Court of Aus-
tralia (Testro Bros. v. Tait, 109 C.L.R.
353), but it is respectfully suggested that
the minority judgments are compelling.
MR. JUSTICE KITTO, in one of the
dissenting judgments, spoke of the
rule of law under discussion as being
founded “on the recognition that where
a legislature ... is found entrusting to a
person a power to do harm to another in
virtue of a judgment formed after inquiry,
it should be credited, unless it otherwise
indicates, with an intention to be under-
stood as speaking of generally accepted
ideas of decency in adjudication.” The
other dissentient, Mr. Justice Menzies,
said this: “Once it appears that an inspec-
tor is given power by his report to affect
the legal position of the company whose
affairs he is required to investigate, the
intention ought, in the absence of some
different indication, to be inferred that
the inquiry is to be carried on in accord-
ance with the root principles of justice.”
Mr. Gerard Nash, who is Senior Lecturer
in Legal Studies at Melbourne University,
also argues persuasively that inspectors
should be regarded as bound by rules of
natural justice, and that the Testro and
Coppel cases were wrongly decided (“The
Judicial Function aitd Inspectors Ap-
pointed Under the Companies Act 1961,”
Australian Law Journal, August 31, 1964,
38 A.L.J. 111). '
Nevertheless, unless Parliament alters
the law or the Privy Council overrules the
Testro decision, the majority judgments
in the High Court remain binding. Com-
panies under investigation have no right
to be told what is alleged against them.
They need be given no opportunity of
putting their side of the case to the in-
spector. They have no right to be repre-
sented by a solicitor or counsel. And wit-
nesses have no right to legal representation
while they undergo the saddening process
of watching an experienced Q.C. build a
case against them out of their own mouths.
Indeed, it has been held that they are
guilty of contempt if they so much as
insist on a shorthand writer taking down
the questions and answers, or on writing
down each question in long-hand before
they answer it (Re Davies-Roe, 1965
N.S.W.R. 767).
Thus Parliament, in its wisdom, has


ARE YOU
PLANNING
TO BUILD
WE OFFER YOU A COMPLETE
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT
BUILDING SERVICE AVAILABLE
ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA.
This means that you can have any type
of building from a large home to any com-
mercial project designed in detail for you
by our Architects, Structural Engineers
and Civil Engineers and built for you by
our mobile building teams of skilled trades-
men who are available to go to all States
in Australia, including N.T.
We specialise in the design of large
luxury homes with swimming pools, land-
scaped gardens, courtyards and special in-
terior finishes. Our group works in con-
junction with two of Australia’s leading
Interior Decorators and retains on its staff
artisans experienced in the working of
sandstone and marble.
The commercial projects undertaken by
our consulting designers include Civic Cen-
tres, Motels, Hotels, Drive-in Cinemas,
Shopping Arcades, Land Subdivisions,
Road Construction, Home Units and
Factories.
EXTRACT FROM CLIENTS LETTER
N.S.W. WHEAT RESEARCH FOUNDATION
Managing Director April 15, 1966
Mobile Constructions,
G.P.0., Box 3777, SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,
It is apparent that this work has been
carried out in an expert manner and I
will take this opportunity of commending
the finished buildings as one of credit to
the operations of your firm . . .
Yours faithfully,
J. P. CASS, 0.8. E.
Chairman N.S.W. Wheat Foundation
(is a Member of the Australian
Wheat Board)
EXTRACT FROM UNITED FARMERS JOURNAL,
WED., JUNE I, 1966.
“Although costs of the building have
not been disclosed, they are understood .to
be most reasonable for a unit of its size
and design.” (This statement refers to
an Administration Building built in Nar-
rabri, N.S.W., under our design and con-
struct system for the N.S.W. Wheat
Research Foundation.)
All States write to
MOBILE CONSTRUCTION
CO. AUST. PTY. LTD.
GPO, Box 3777,
Sydney.
Phone 27-3246
decreed that what Mr. Justice Kitto des-
cribed as “generally accepted ideas of
decency in adjudication,” and what Mf.
Justice Menzies termed the “root princi-
ples of justice,” are to be thrown out of
the window when a company is being
investigated.
This is particularly disturbing because
criminal prosecutions nearly always fol-
low the inspector’s report, if the report
is adverse to the company. What the
charge may be depends on the circum-
stances. The directors may be charged with
publishing a false prospectus, in which case
the line between excessive optimism and
wilful deception is not always easy to
draw. They may be charged with not
stressing adverse factors, as they are re-
quired to do by the Fifth Schedule to the
Act. Or, though this vein of obtaining
convictions has not yet been exploited,
they may be charged with conspiracy, for
the House of Lords has recently held that
any agreement to do something which is
“prejudicial to the public welfare” is an
indictable conspiracy (Shaw v. Director of
Public Prosecutions, 1961 2 A.E.R. 446).
JF they are charged, few of the bulwarks
which normally protect a man against
the possibility of wrongful conviction will
protect them. They will certainly be com-
mitted for trial, since the committing
magistrate is not concerned with their
guilt or innocence, but only with the ques-
tion whether there is some evidence against
them. The trial judge will warn the jury
that they must not be influenced by
prejudice, but beyond this he cannot pro-
tect them. And their ultimate fate will
rest with a jury. Now, most juries begin
with a healthy prejudice in favor of the
accused. Not so, however, if the accused
is responsible for many humble people
losing their money. In such a case the
Crown never fails to open the innings
by a procession of two or three hundred
victims of the crash, who simply say that
they invested on the faith of the accused’s
prospectus and that their life savings are
now gone. Few jurymen can resist the
feeling that whoever is responsible for the
crash ought to be behind bars.
The accused is not helped by the fact
that the inspector’s opinion is legal evi-
dence of his guilt, and has already been
blazoned all over the front pages when
the report was published. “Cases have
occurred recently,” the learned authors of
the 1965 Company Practice complain at
page 512, “where reports containing a
recommendation that criminal proceedings
be taken against named individuals have
been widely published. The authors con-
sider this practice to be grossly unjust
and undesirable.” Although the authors
who voiced this criticism were His Honor
Mr. Justice Wallace, of the N.S.W.
Supreme Court, now President of the
Court of Appeal, and Mr. J. Mcl. Young,
Q.C., of the Victorian Bar, nothing has
been done so far to alter the position.
In cases so complex in nature, so fraught
with dangers of prejudice, so tied up
with subtle issues such as intent to defraud
or wilful deception, would we not come
closer to justice if the trial were entrusted
to a panel of judges, or to a judge
assisted by assessors with special qualifica-
tions?
As things stand, then, the man who has
a new idea, a new project, a new develop-
ment, for which public money is required
if it is to be translated into reality, must
face up to the escalator which, if he
fails, will certainly carry him to ruin, to
disgrace, and to prison. His company will
be “declared,” and this will be done by
means of an executive act. Neither he nor
his company will get a hearing before this
happens, or a chance to prevent it from
happening. The company will then be in-
vestigated and still it will have no chance
to answer the charges against it, or to know
exactly what they are, or to be legally
represented.
He and his associates will be closely
questioned, equally without benefit of
counsel, equally deprived of rights which
our law confers on the humblest citizen
and on the most vicious criminal, but not
on him. He will be interrogated behind
closed doors, by a skilled interrogator, and
compelled to build up a case against
himself. To him, the investigation will be-
come the kind of nightmare trial with
which his reading of Kafka and Orwell
will have made him familiar a trial in
which he will never meet his accusers, or
know of what he is accused, or be allowed
to answer the accusations. And he will
know that the law has stripped him of all
the protection it normally employs to pro-
tect the innocent; that if his interrogator
finds him to be guilty, his public trial and
ultimate conviction will merely be formali-
ties.
For the report will be evidence of his
guilt. It will be made public and he will
be tried by a jury of men who have read
it and who are, in any event, necessarily
biased against him. The rules that a man
is innocent until he is proved guilty, that
he should never be forced to establish his
own guilt, that his judges should be
utterly impartial, may apply to every man,
woman, and child in the English-speaking
world. They will not apply to him.
In the face of such a future, many a
worth-while commercial adventure is likely
to remain a dream. Many a prospectus
will remain unwritten. Promoters and the
public alike will be forced to err on the
side of safety.
Some will say that this is a good thing;
that this is the price we must pay for
protecting people against their own folly.
But there are several answers to this. The
price we pay may be too high. Perhaps
we should not legislate to protect people
against themselves. But before we begin
to consider such issues, can we be sure
that this kind of legislation really deters
the dishonest promoter? It may be that,
faced with the certainty of ending up in
prison, he will try all the harder to put
away as much as he can, as quickly as he
can. With honest promoters frightened
away, will he not have a greater chance to
fleece the public? And will the public not
be more fleeceable than ever if it is lulled
into a sense of false security by supposedly
“protective” Acts of Parliament?
These are speculations, but certainly no
concrete evidence exists to support the
view that dishonest promoters and de-
velopers have ever been stopped by this
kind of 1984-ish legislation. Which leads
one to the disquieting conclusion that, in
a nominally free-enterprise society, at tre-
mendous cost in terms of essential human
rights, we have succeeded in deterring
only the honest entrepreneur.


If you’re renting more computer than you need,
it’s like burning money.
NCR's new 500 Series costs less than
other low-cost computer systems. Its
unique building-block design enables
you to start small—then grow as your
needs expand. You never pay for
more than you need or more than you
can use. In addition to being lower
priced, a “500” is faster, too. As a
total system, from preparation of
input data through final reports for
management, nothing in its price
range can touch it for speed of pro-
cessing.
And it’s more flexible. Only the “500”
in the low-price field offers you your
choice of all the computer languages
punched card and tape, mag-
netic ledger, optical print tape.
We could go on and on like this
about the new “500” Series. A call
to your local NCR office and we will.
f
m
m.
HELPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


A Barrel in the Hand is Worth...
WILD CAT
PAGES
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
WHILE Australia’s most-loved oil stock BHP bounces ahead to greater things before
it has begun to exploit its new-found riches, the stock market has all but ignored
Australia’s only listed oil-producing company, AOG.
The Chartist’s enthusiasm for the 50-
cent shares in Australian Oil and Gas is
shared by a Sydney broker, Garrett Lance
and Co., which last week put out a study
of the stock and included a strong recom-
mendation to buy, for those who are pre-
pared to accept a degree of risk.
What appeals, to the broker is not only
the company’s strong earnings position in
the Surat Basin (which includes its 20
percent stake in the Moonie and Alton
fields owned in conjunction with the U.S.
companies Union Oil and Kern County
Land as well as a 20 percent interest in
N.S.W. areas of the basin in conjunction
with Esso) but also its holdings in the
Sydney, Murray, Great Barrier Reef, and
Gippsland Basins.
In the Sydney Basin, AOG is linked
with Shell, which is drilling 20 miles north-
west of Sydney; in the Great Barrier Reef
it is joined with Gulf Oil, and in Gipps-
land with Woodside (Lakes Entrance),
Burmah Oil, and Continental Oil.
The broker estimates “conservatively”
that the Moonie field is producing a profit
of 75 cents a barrel, ignoring the 13.5
cents royalty AOG now receives on all its
sales. This royalty alone on the 50 million
recoverable barrels the field is estimated
to hold would bring in $6.75 million to
AOG.
He also estimates that if the market is
valuing AOG’s Moonie interest as worth
$7-| million, then AOG’s market capitalisa-
tion of .million at current prices of
$2.40 means that all its other interests
are only capitalised at $ll million, which
he regards as very small indeed.
“AOG is already receiving a royalty
income equiyalent to 10 percent per
annum on its ordinary capital. Exploration
interests are extensive and contain several
highly promising areas,” the broker says,
adding that, at around $2.40, the 50-cent
shares, close to their lowest level since a
commercial oilfield was discovered, offer
a most interesting investment prospect and
place a market valuation on the company’s
interests which appears unreasonably
cheap.
THE Chartist (BULLETIN, June 18) is
not the only person recommending
shareholders into BHP. Over the
past two or three weeks there has been
a kind of BHP rash among stockbrokers.
Nearly every one of their circulars has
pushed the stock as one of the best buys
on the market.
The combined pressures of all these cir-
culars on the market has been one of the
prime factors in the steady climb of BHP
shares recently. The 1965-66 production
figures showed an increase over 1964-65
despite the cautious warnings of the board
in its interim report. Added to this is all
the glamor of the group’s interests in iron
ore, oil, and gas.
More important however, to share-
holders, is the fact that these projects are
all going to require millions of dollars in
development cash over the next few years.
It is probably just as well for the stock
market that the company is looking to
debentures rather than shares as the way
to raise the cash; there are clear benefits
to shareholders in getting the opportunity
to buy a good company debenture (and
these are scarce), and it would have been
a depressing influence on BHP’s market
pi'ice to have had another share issue so
soon after the recent one-for-seven—
particularly now that BHP is an oil stock
with a scarcity value.
DON’T buy too many stocks; just buy
the right ones. Most private port-
folios contain far too many stocks,
according to a leading Melbourne broker.
This can mean that the benefit of good
gains from selected issues can be lost. So
any portfolio that is so broad it moves
very much with the Stock Exchange indices
would have brought capital gains over the
past four years so small that fixed interest
investments would have proved more
profitable.
The broker suggests five companies as an
adequate spread for a $lOOO portfolio, ten
for $lO,OOO and 12 to 15 for $50,000. For
a growth portfolio, each of these com-
panies must be in a growth industry that
is not subject to strong internal competi-
tion.
So the best industries are cement, basic
commodities, breweries, frozen food, cer-
tain sections of retailing, and BHP. He
dismisses automotive distribution, building
(excluding cement), packaging, news-
papers, and heavy engineering as being
either too competitive, too unstable, or too
unpredictable.
Within the selected industries a growth
portfolio requires a mixture of low yield-
ing leaders and second line issues offering
medium to high earnings yields, strong
growth prospects, and the possibility of in-
creased market status. On this basis, the
broker’s selections include CRA, Mt. Isa,
ACI, BHP, Carlton Brewery, A & K
Cement, Frozen Foods, Lifesavers, Ramsay
Surgical, Grace Bros.- and /. B. Young.
LAST week’s profit result from
Melbourne-based financier General
Credits should lure more investors
into the shares over the next few weeks
and lift market prices. The 50-cent units
look good buying, selling for only 57 cents
and yielding 7 percent from the now well-
covered 8 percent dividend. The peak
1965-66 profit of $895,000 was equal to
12 percent on paid ordinary capital. This
is the best rate achieved by the group
since formation in 1960. Until now, the
rather narrow cover for dividends has
always been a dampener on the market
price of the shares.
Analysts will be pointing out that the
peak profit, up from $732,000 in 1964-65,
The Chartist says:
AOG could now be bought for technical reasons. A sharp upward movement from
late 1960 took the stock to a high point of £6/15/- before the premium issue in
March, 1962. The chart shows the downward trend which followed until the middle
of 1965, when a low of $2.10 was recorded. A consolidation base pattern has formed over
the past twelve months and the recent move to $2.66 penetrated the major downtrend.
The stock now appears to be* commencing a new upward movement which could take
prices to a minimum objective of about $4.20. However, it is likely that AOG could
ultimately move to much higher levels and the point and figure chart, which has not
been reproduced here, suggests a further target of about $4.90.


was after a sharp tax reduction from
$736,000 to $628,000. But this reduction
has merely brought the provision closer
to what it should be and .more in line
with profits the 1964-65 provision was
bigger than the profit itself. In addition,
the earning rate, up from 10.5 percent
previously, was after allowing for $67,000
in preference dividends. In 1964-65 this
requirement was a mere $12,000.
Being only a few cents above par, the
shares must be considered among the most
attractive of the finance companies from
the growth potential point of view as well
as for income. Like other major financiers,
a bank (the CBA) holds a large interest.
But more important is the relatively
smaller reliance on fluctuating hire-
purchase profits. The group’s success in
recent years has been a result of diversifi-
cation into country areas and a move into
property lending, leasing, and agricultural
machinery finance. No doubt the N.S.W.-
Queensland drought already has and will
be creating more demand for the com-
pany’s services in rural areas.
THE moral victory won by John
Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd. on the steel
sheet dumping issue is already hav-
ing a favorable effect on trade, though
management will not hazard any guesses
as to what this will mean in terms of
profit for 1966.
At a time when the local demand for
sheet steel and coil had declined, Japan
entered the market. Production by
Lysaght fell from 813,000 tons in 1964 to
756,000 tons and profit fell accordingly in
the year to last December. The 1965
imports, mainly from Japan, totalled
70,000 tons, almost exclusively in uncoated
steel, so competing with Lysaght’s locally
made products.
Lysaght proved, to the satisfaction of
the Minister for Customs, that these
Japanese imports were being dumped, at
around $l5 a ton below the local price.
The Australian Government persuaded the
Japanese steel industry to cease dumping
and raise prices to an acceptable level.
The falling-off in local - demand ex-
perienced in the last half of 1965 has
continued this year, but Lysaght does not
expect any .more trouble with dumping.
As a result, current prices of $2.20 for
Lysaghts one dollar shares, to yield 5
percent on dividends and 8.8 percent on
earnings, could be rewarding, provided
the economy picks up a bit later on this
year.
THE stockmarket seems much more
enthusiastic about investing in pic-
ture theatres than industry experts.
By keeping the price of Amalgamated
Holdings shares up near their peak of 1.42
despite last week’s dreary profit from its
main source of revenue, the Greater
Union Group, investors are either prepared
to ride out the present rough time in
the picture business in the hope of better
times to come, or are putting a great
deal of faith in the prospects of the
group’s other interests such as office equip-
ment.
Despite the technicolored glasses through
which some market commentators look at
Amalgamated Holdings, the facts of the
picture-theatre business are that last year
was a bad one for Greater Union’s chain
of theatres mainly because it did not
have enough good films to show the pub-
lie. Attendances were poor not because of
remodelling of some of its older cinemas,
but because the product it had to sell
was not as good as those of its major
rival, the Hoyts group. A glance at Syd-
ney advertisements will show that the
good long-running films like “Those
Magnificent Men,” “My Fair Lady,” “Tom
Jones,” and “The Sound of Music” are
at Hoyts theatres.
The situation may improve this year,
but it all depends on what the film studios
release. Behind all this is the clear fact
that Australia is overseated on a per-
capita basis for picture theatres in relation
to the rest of the Western world, and the
new city cinemas put up in the main by
independent operators in response to
special situations like “My Fair Lady”
will only make things harder for every-
one. The G.U.T. new city cinemas have
not added in any way to the seats the
group has in cities.
So it looks as if the only reason for
Greater Union’s very small profit rise
of $4310 in the year to December was
that results from its other operations, par-
ticularly Rank Xerox, offset the clearly
unimpressive picture - theatre results.
Greater Union is maintaining its ordinary
dividend of $400,000 to its joint owners,
Amalgamated Holdings and Rank, out of
its profit of $730,714, so there is still
plenty of dividend cover.
THE market’s immediate response to
the STP-Tennyson Textile merger
news was to mark down Tennyson
shares by 5 cents to bring them closer
to the implied post-merger price of
STP. It may have been wiser to mark
up STP shares instead.
Fven though STP is clearlv the bigger
unit in this new textUe processing
and merchandising group, providing 70
percent of the combined profits, 75 per-
cent of the combined capital and 60
nercent of thp reserves and leaving STP
shareholders 73 percent of
the proposed capital in the yet to be
named holding company, the clear and
significant benefits for both companies
likely to flow from this merger are such
that upward adjustments rather than
, v ,i i r :
downward ones look far more appropn-
ate> .
The benefits to these companies (which
are going to continue as separate en-
tities except for a bit of director-swap-
ping) in terms of increased buying power
against the yarn producers will be well
known to Bulletin readers following_the
articles on this subject on January 22
and June 11. But there can be little
doubt that the Tariff Board’s enthusiasm,
expressed last year, for getting the in-
dustry organised into larger and more
economic units may have played some
part in the affair. The new group will
be Australia’s third largest textile pro-
cessor.
The merger terpis 10 50-cent shares
in the new company for 10 in STP s
case and 8 for 10 in Tennyson’s—mean
that on last Thursday’s market (when
tke was announced )> the value of
in the new company on the basis
of the g 5 cent P nce of J en . n 7 S °u Sha^ eS
™ as 106 cents, compared with the price
through 1B oi 95 cents/
r ,
N° dmd “ d > h f ™
Q has been stated yet ’ bu * Wld ] a
29 P ercent earning rate b , as f* ° n last
year ? combine d results (which seem
certain to be exceeded) and wi h e
P ros P ect of considerable increases in
earnings as the economies of scale and
effidencies involved in the merg er take
effect, there is plenty of scope for a
generous dividend policy.
If ; as se ems a minimum prospect, the
current year’s 12J percent dividend
policy of STP continues in the new
company, it will mean no change for
STP shareholders and an increase to
Tennyson shareholders, whose 8 shares
in the holding company will bring them
in 50 cents a year against the 45 cents
their 10 Tennyson shares now return
them. On earnings, there is hardly any
change in the new arrangement from
the 14.4 cents a share earned by STP
last year and the 15 cents on a compar-
able basis earned by Tennyson,
The STP-Tennyson link is clearly not
the j as t mOV e of this kind in this indus-
try. a. company like Bruck Mills, which
a l so a l ar g e purchaser of synthetic yarn
and which depends on merchandisers
like ST P and Tennyson (in which it has
a moderate share interest) to dispose
G f a i arge proportion of its products,
could well join in such a group, although
the current high profits that seem likely
to be reported" ftL Brnck for the yeai
now ending may limit its enthusiasm
for the time being. Another possible
contender is Osti, which splits all its
outside printing work between Tenny-
son and ST P.
, , , ,
The market would be unwise t 0 con-
clude that the unsatisfactory results
from the recently merged woollen com-
panies in Textile Holdings and the
Prestige-Holeproof link as an indication
that mergers in textiles are not worth-
while. In the first place, Textile Hold-
ings is in wool, and greater buying
power with wool gives no buying ad-
vantages and can well go the other way;
in the second place, the hosiery business
has been very tough indeed, which is
quite a different situation to the highly
profitable one of Tennyson and STP.


rK
K
m
HI
m
H
111
HI
■HMMI
■
. • .
WW ' \ I
mP ifc/lB
Mi
f
inlgfcfc.
Manpower
White Gloves
Identify
The Best
Temporary
And Permanent
Office
Workers
In Australia
When you need typists, stenographers,
office machine operators or clerks to
help with extra work for a day, a week
or for a permanent position, call the
Manpower office in your city.
Manpower office workers have been
given White Gloves as a symbol of
their skill and experience.
Manpower is Australia’s largest and
most experienced organization spe-
cializing in both permanent and tem-
porary staff.
TYPISTS • STENOS • CLERICAL HELP
MANPOWER
National Headquarters:
MELBOURNE
Other offices in:
ADELAIDE • BRISBANE
PERTH • SYDNEY
MINING
Peko's Long-term Prospects
INVESTORS in mining stocks have
never been so well informed by their
brokers about the state of the indus-
try as they are now. But that is no
guarantee of safety for mining investors;
good judgment is as important an ingredi-
ent as good information. And there is a
distinct possibility that much of the infor-
mation now becoming available to in-
vestors would have been of much greater
use in market terms a year or so ago.
Nevertheless, the thorough review of
copper put out last week by the Sydney
broker Peter Hains and Co. is a valuable
reference; it confirms the widely held
belief in the high growth potential of
copper stocks and clearly outlines the
various factors which could cause fluctua-
tions in the short- and long-term pros-
pects for this metal.
This review followed the aptly titled
publication of Melbourne broker Leonard
G. May, “Go Underground,” which sug-
gested that some mining companies are
'safer long-term investments than most
industrial stocks and that their dividend
returns and capital growth performance
justifies their inclusion in every long-term
portfolio. Earlier this year, the Sydney
brokers Ord Minnett T. J. Thompson and
Partners started off the series with a com-
prehensive review of investment in mineral
resources which warned of the pitfalls of
possible world over-production while
pointing to the sound prospects for many
metals. Ord Minnett stressed the impor-
tance of watching world market situations
and production trends. On both these
scores it is well worth while looking at
Peko Wallsend Investments Ltd.
The sharp rise in Peko shares during
June was partly explained last weekend
by the news that its new Warrego mine,
50 miles from Peko, has been proved as to
three million tons (and probably another
million) of 2.6 percent copper ore and
1.2 dwts. of gold, and that the $lO mil-
lion needed to develop it (along with mil-
ling capacity up to 400,000 tons a year)
will not have to come from shareholders.
This new mine is of major significance
to Peko in lengthening its life at Ten-
nant Creek, where its four other mines
had only a few years’ life based on last
year’s stated reserves of only 1.2 million
tons. But copper is only one of Peko’s
interests, which range from gold, beach
sands, and coal to new ventures in tin
and bauxite through its 3f percent interests
in Nabalco Pty. Ltd., holder of the Gove
deposits. The market expects to hear of
substantially higher profits when Peko
reports in six weeks’ time, largely because
of the likelihood of greatly increased re-
turns from its 50 percent holding in
Rutile and Zircon Mines (Newcastle) Ltd.
This source of income is quite easy to
assess, since all profits of Rutile and
Zircon Mines are distributed to the joint-
shareholders as dividends. A complica-
tion exists in that the partners are also
entitled to preferential royalties of $4
per ton from the mining leases which they
contributed. Although Peko has taken
these royalties into account in the year
to which they relate, dividends paid after
the cjose of the 1964/65 financial year by
Rutile and Zircon Mines will not be
reflected until this year’s accounts. Thus,
dividend income from this source will
include the 13.3 percent final dividend
paid in August, 1965, and the 25 percent
interim dividend paid last December—a
total of $203,000 for each partner, com-
pared with $60,000 in last year’s accounts.
In addition Peko can probably expect up
to another $lOO,OOO from royalties as
against $64,000 last year.
This is based on the assumption that
production of rutile for the full year will
be in the order of 48,000 tons. That seems
likely in view of the fact that, for the 44
weeks to May 10, 1966, 40,608 tons of
rutile and 30,368 tons of zircon had been
produced against 41,996 tons of rutile and
30,564 tons of zircon last year. The annual
report of Coffs Harbour Rutile N.L.,
issued in June, indicated that, due to
higher prices for rutile and zircon and
efficient operation of the plant, profita-
bility of Rutile and Zircon Mines this year
is expected to be substantially greater than
last year. In view of these higher prices
and the existence of the rutile contract
with E. I. du Pont de Nemours of the
U.S., increasingly handsome dividends
should be available to the partner com-
panies.
JN the past, Peko’s .main source of
revenue appears to have come from its
copper-gold producing subsidiaries in the
Tennant Creek area, Peko Mines N.L.
(the Peko and Ivanhoe mines) and Or-
lando Mines N.L. Unfortunately, unlike
the even more highly diversified CRA
group, Peko does not give any breakdown
of the sources of its earnings. Thus the
most important pointer to Peko’s results
this year comes from the copper-gold pro-
duction reports.
In the 48 weeks to June 7, 1966, a total
of 221,022 tons of ore have been milled
by both subsidiaries for a recovery of
33,9490 z. of gold and 6418 tons of cop-
per. On current production rates, the
year’s production should amount to around
36,8000 z. of gold and 7000 tons of cop-
per from 240,000 tons of ore, compared
with 26,6240 z. of gold and 7408 tons of
copper from 217,000 tons of ore last
financial year. Silver production, which
last year totalled 100,4440 z. is not pub-
lished progressively.
The reduced copper and increased gold
outputs appear to result mainly from a
fall in copper grades at the Peko mine,
coupled with the first full year’s produc-
tion from Ivanhoe, which has higher gold
values than Peko. Next year, gold pro-
duction should increase even further with
the commencement of operations at the
small Juno mine, which, has reserves of
70,000 tons assaying 3oz. gold per ton
and 0.8 percent copper. At present pro-
duction rates, the existing reserves can be
worked for about five years at Peko, three


years at Orlando, and six years at Ivan-
hoe. The new Warrego mine appears to
have at least a 10-year life after it gets
into maximum production, which should
be around the 400,000 tons of ore a year
milling capacity envisaged by directors.
This should produce about 10,400 tons of
copper to bring the company about $8.3
million a year at current prices if the
average values are maintained. If this
were added to current production, then
Peko’s copper output would be more than
doubled. But Warrego will not begin
commercial production until 1970-11,-by
which time there may be little left in
Peko’s other copper mines. The grades
at Warrego are lower than Peko’s average,
so mining and processing must be at an
economic maximum rate to provide ade-
quate profits, although if the current high
export prices are maintained they would
provide Peko with the opportunity of
mining many poorer than average ores
at a profit without denting the higher
quality reserves. And the company is
continuing its program of extensive
exploration.
All the company’s production of cop-
per concentrates has been sold forward to
Sumitomo Shoji Kaisha Ltd., of Japan, on
a mine-life basis at a price which follows
the New York Engineering and Mining
Journal export refinery price. In 1964/65,
the price realised by the company averaged
$A658.15 per ton of contained copper
(roughly 33 cents U.S. per lb.).
In the half year to December, 1965, the
EM and J export refinery price averaged
around 37 cents U.S. per lb. In January,
1966, the average was 41.77 cents and by
the end of May the price had reached
57.4 cents. Thus, if we conservatively
estimate the average for the full year
at 40 cents U.S. per lb. roughly SABOO
per ton - this year’s copper earnings
should more than offset the lower produc-
tion rates. In addition, the company’s gold
earnings should increase by over one-third.
On the above counts, earnings for the
current year will certainly be higher,
although the net profit will depend on the
amount of exploration expenditure. How-
ever, at the last annual meeting in
October, the chairman indicated that re-
sults for the first quarter of 1965/66
pointed to a full year’s profit of not less
than in 1964/65, at the same time sup-
porting a further increase in exploration.
Along these lines it is well to bear in
mind that Peko’s total capital commitment
at Gove will be $1.5 million by 1971, in
addition to exploration funds required for
the Tennant Creek and other areas.
COMMODITIES
Level Heads on Copper
IT looked like the beginning of the end
for the copper boom in April, when
the settlement of the Chilean miners’
strike and adoption of LME prices by
Zambian producers cut the market from
£stg.79o to £stg.soo a ton in three hectic
weeks. Then the Zambia-Rhodesia dispute
began to warm up and London Metal
Exchange prices again reversed, reaching
£664 by the end of last month before
reacting to about £6OO a ton.
Was the April price fall premature?
Perhaps not. For, considering the serious-
ness of the current disruptions to supply
in Zambia and the even more serious
possible future developments, the market
has been remarkably little affected by
panic buying.
At present it is expected that about 60
percent of Zambian output will reach
world markets with little delay. Although
a better performance had been expected,
this is by no means good news for those
consumers dependent on copper from the
world’s leading exporter. Certainly
markets would soon rise if this 40 percent
cut continued for some time so some-
thing will have to give.
As well as the Zambian disruption,
there has been a Canadian dockers’ strike,
a Chilean merchant marine stoppage, and
the U.K. seamen’s dispute.
The reason for the relatively level-
headed LME market may lie in a better
underlying copper supply position than
generally credited. An important factor is
the quiet labor scene in Chile at present.
Loss of production in a five-week Chilean
stoppage in November and December last
year totalled about 61,000 tons. And in
the first three months of this year about
35,000 tons were lost through stoppage at
a major mine.
Although estimates of actual supply-
demand balance vary considerably because
of the absence of world-wide co-ordination
of statistics, this loss of almost 100,000 tons
in a six-month period would be of con-
siderable importance. “Because of the cur-
rent difficulty in obtaining all the copper
we would like to have, we forget that
supply and demand are now probably
much closer than we are inclined to be-
lieve,” said Dr. James Boyd, president of
America’s Copper Range Co., recently.
Dr. Boyd also pointed out, however,
that stocks were low compared to the level
of orders, so some rise in production
could be absorbed. How worried con-
sumers really are about the level of their
stocks, and so how much they are pre-
pared to pay for insurance against supply
cuts, will determine the LME market’s
moves in coming weeks.
Higher Floor for Tin
PRODUCING nations are stepping up
pressure for a higher floor price in
the International Tin Agreement.
The president of Bolivia’s nationalised
mines, Comibol, and the Mines Minister
have both stated that Bolivia could with-
draw from the agreement if the minimum
price is set below £stg.l2oo a ton. The
present price range is £stg.looo to
£stg.l2oo.
The manager of the buffer stocks must
buy or sell metal on the London Metal
Exchange in an effort to maintain prices
within the range. At present he holds
only cash, so the upper limit is inopera-
tive.
The International Tin Council meets
on July 1 and producers, as in the past,
will make strong pleas for a higher sup-
port price.
With tin at present selling only £6O
above the proposed floor, the move, if
accepted, would have some practical value
—which it would not have had last year
when prices were far higher.
BHP's Exports
WHILE fighting off incursions by
Japanese imports at home, Broken
Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. has been
increasingly active in Japan’s own mar-
kets. BHP’s exports of billets to the
Philippines have been the latest worry
for Japanese producers, according to the
London “Metal Bulletin.”
Japanese ihills formerly dominated the
Philippines market, with sales of 3000 to
5000 tons a year. BHP’s $U.5.75 a ton
prices are $5 lower than the Japanese.
Exports of Japanese heavy plates, wire
rods, and hot-coils to South-East Asia
generally are now suffering considerably
from BHP’s activities, the “Metal Bulle-
tin” says.
In April, BHP announced despatch of
21,272 tons of billets and-hot-rolled strip
for Europe. At the time, 30,000 tons of
metal were being prepared for European
shipment, 9500 tons were en route to
Hong Kong, and plans were under way
for shipping 11,500 tons to Taiwan and
the Philippines. A further 48,800 tons were
scheduled for the U.S. and Europe in
the near future.
In his interim report in March, the
chairman (Sir Colin Syme) pointed out
that world markets were depressed,
reflecting over-capacity in many countries.
Help lor Lead-Zinc
London metal exchange
prices for lead and zinc are also
being supported by transport prob-
lems. A maritime strike on the Canadian
Atlantic seaboard has held up sizable
tonnages bound for England and,
although now ended, supply problems will
not be immediately ironed out.
Canadian output will also be delayed,
perhaps for months. And there is also the
U.K. seamen’s strike. If these bull factors
are discounted, prices could tumble con-
siderably further.
Aluminium Usage
TOTAL use of aluminium in the
U.S., the most important single
market in the world, rose by 13.8
percent in 1965 to 3.6 million tons. The
electrical market was the fastest growing,
with a 30 percent increase. Electrical
uses took 13.2 percent of sales, compared
with 11.7 percent in 1964.
Other fast-growing markets included
transportation, up 15.6 percent, which took
22.7 percent of the market, and con-
tainers and packaging up 14.3 percent to
8.1 percent of the market.
Building and construction was again the
main end use, with 22.9 percent of the
market, but transport seems set to sur-
pass it this year.


Finance Corporation
of A ustralia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
7!z
PER ANNUM 9 YEARS
Ik
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
0
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6”«
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
53x
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
Ah
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form
referred to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of
application should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
FCN.2
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Kelvinator Now Cheap
THERE is no doubt that Kelvinator
Australia Limited is the stock-market
leader in the group of companies
which manufacture “white goods.” At the
present time, the price of Kelvinator’s
shares shows a dividend yield of 3.8 per-
cent and, disregarding Simpson-Pope,
whose shares are selling at 34 cents to
show a dividend yield of 2.9 percent from
last year’s dividend of 1 cent per share,
the others which are still on the dividend
lists show yields ranging from 6.6 to 9.8
percent. The reason is that not only has
Kelvinator been highly profitable in terms
of earnings per share but also profits have
been increasing rapidly over recent years.
In the annual report for 1966 compara-
tive profit figures for the past five years
show the actual tax paid (with the ex-
ception of 1965/66, of course). These
figures enable the taxable income of the
group to be worked out on the assump-
tion that all the subsidiaries earned at
least $lO,OOO p.a. each throughout the
period. The figures seem to be as follows:
Year to March 31 1962 1963 1964 1965
s’ooo
“Estimated taxable
income’’ 1092 1727 1868 2253
Published net profit
(before tax) 1043 1382 1549 1837
Difference 49 345 319 416
It might be as well to list a few of the
items which have been deducted from
profits before arriving at net profit before
tax which would not have been regarded
as deductible for tax purposes:
Year to March 31 1962 1963 1964 1965
s’ooo
Doubtful debts
provision n.a. 100
Inventory obsolescence n.a. 60 60
Increase in:
Long service provision 14 10 16 30
Warranty provision (84) 30 68 194
Total (70) 140 144 284
If we then take into account capital
profits and dividend income, which would
not be taxable but which have been in-
cluded in the published net profit before
tax, we find that there still appear to be
unexplainable differences between the ad-
justed net profit before tax and the ap-
parent taxable income. Ignoring 1961/62,
because of the lack of information, these
differences are $220,000 (1962/63),
$187,000 (1963/64), and $176,000 (1964/
65). '
This would not be the whole story by
any means for, during 1963/64, about
$229,000 was spent on “Plant, machinery,
furniture, office machines, and motor
vehicles,” and in the following year about
$740,000. Presumably some of this ex-
penditure would have qualified for the in-
vestment allowance.
For the year ended March 31, 1966, it
seejns clear that profit was down on the
previous year, because the amount of tax
provided is nearly 4 percent less than was
actually paid in respect of 1964/65 profits.
Earnings, on the other hand, seem to have
increased. One deduction from profits of
1965/66 which could be regarded as ex-
ceptional is the amount of $259,378, the
full amount owing by H. G. Palmer. Apart
from this amount, the bad debt write-off
seems quite small at $18,234.
One must be rather concerned about
future growth potential when reading the
newspaper reports on the evidence given
at the Tariff Board hearing last March
• . • j... . j r • •
•mto air-conditionmg and refrigeration
eqmpment. Products of household re-
ngeiators was expected to be down about
10 percent in the financial year 1965/66
as compared with 1964/65, and production
. . n
f f ot ex P ec^ ed to exceed
that ° f 1%4 /65 It seems that the ltfe of
a sealed-unit refrigerator could now ex-
ceed 17 s Some h was d
in room air-conditioners and home freezers,
but the historical record of over-production
in room air-conditioners would suggest
caution in trying to predict this market.


BALANCE SHEET, SUMMARIES ($’000)
Year to March 31
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
Current assets
7040
7782
9440
9870
10112
Current liabilities
1792
2190
3360
3466
3101
Net working capital
5248
5592
6080
6404
7011
Fixed assets
3240
3280
3180
3524
3416
Investments
—
124
238
232
426
Total capital
represented by:
8488
8996
9498
10160
10853
Loan capital
750
724
696
670
642
Long term provisions
700
740
824
1060
1146
Preference capital
460
460
460
460
460
Ordinary capital
2026
2026
2531
2531
2531
Reserves
4552
5046
4987
5539
6074
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES
($-000)
Interest paid
n.a.
42
40
38
37
Depreciation
458
504
624
655
660
Tax
434
688
792
956
900
Preference dividend
24
24
24
24
24
Earnings
584
754
784
879
964
Ordinary dividends
304
304
354
380
380
Surplus
280
450
430
499
584
Earning rate % (a)
23.1
29.8
31.0
34.7
38 1
Dividend rate % (a)
12.0
12.0
14 0
15 0
15 0
Dividend yield %
3.9
3.6
3 0
3.2
3.7
High price (a)
1.64
2.00
2.40
2.95
2.08
Low price (a)
1.40
1.36
2.25
1.78
1.92
(a) adjusted for March
1964
l-for-4
bonus
issue
One heater isn’t whole house heating
But Gilbarco Ducted Heating is!
h
&
0
*
0
Ask an expert and he’ll tell you a heater in one location, no matter how good and how
expensive, won’t warm a whole house. Warm air must be distributed through ducts,
individually into each room, for even house heating.
This is just what Gilbarco Central Heating does. And at a reasonable cost. It’s oil-fired
and thermostatically controlled for economy and gives you warmed filtered air distributed
through outlets into every room of your house. In summer it converts to assist ventilation
throughout the house.
If you've decided on whole-house heating, get it. Go to Gilbarco!
GILBERT & BARKER
Mfg. Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Huntley Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AT BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, TOWNSVILLE, NEWCASTLE,
HOBART, AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH
Please send me further information on Gilbarco Ducted Central Heating.
NAME
ADDRESS
G8:P389
In the three financial years 1959/60,
1960/61, and 1961/62 nearly 134,000 such
appliances were produced; it seems that
this represented about 11 years’ demand at
-current levels. In any event, production
of room air-conditioners and home freezers
would be relatively small in comparison
with refrigerators and washing-machines,
although it is possible that profit margins
are higher.
The subject which is perhaps of the
most interest to existing and potential
shareholders is when the next bonus issue
is likely to occur. It is fairly clear that
Kelvinator has no necessity to raise funds
of any kind to finance any expansion
which might be needed. The following
schedule is a rough three-year fund state-
ment:
$-000
Increase in
Cash and bank 931
Debtors 591
Inventories 776
Land & buildings 435
Plant, machinery, etc. 1327
■lnvestments 303
Accruals 32
4395
Reduction in long-term liabilities 81
4476
Increase in short-term liabilities 625
Retained profits 3851
The estimate in this statement is the
amount of “Retained profits.”
If we take the disclosed net profit be-
fore tax, add back depreciation and other
non-cash provisions, then deduct tax paid
and dividends paid, we arrive at a higher
answer:
s’ooo
Net profit (before tax) 5172
Depreciation 1939
Other provisions 614
7725
Tax actually paid 2437
Dividends actually pa-id 1137
3574
Retained profits 4151
The difference is apparently due to the
depreciation items in the profit-and-losi
statements exceeding the increase in the
balance sheet provisions by more than
$300,000, probably because of sales of
assets. It is significant that the provision
for depreciation in respect of land and
buildings has increased by $270,000.
It is clear that, given a continuation of
the rates of expansion over the past three
years, internal “cash flow” will be suf-
ficient to meet the company’s needs.
I think that after making appropriate
adjustments, Kelvinator’s per share earn-
ings (on a comparable basis with other
companies in this group) would be 22.2
cents. This would mean that at the current
price of $1.95, the shares are selling at
only 8.8 times earnings. They must be
cheap at that price.


How can a jet do a vertical take-off
without moving an inch ?
A new wind tunnel has been designed and built by Hawker Siddeley Aviation
at Hatfield specifically for V/STOL research. The first in Europe, it has a
working section of 15' x 15'. The tunnel floor can be raised and lowered inde-
pendently of the model, and air-speed through the tunnel varied to simulate
different aspects of vertical and short take-off and landing.
Hawker Siddeley know how.
The jet aircraft is an accurate scale model. The vertical
take-off is simulated in Europe’s first V/STOL wind
tunnel, designed by Hawker Siddeley Aviation. Instead
of the model moving, the tunnel floor moves. And
research into V/STOL development progresses.
Hawker Siddeley have the world’s first operational
V/STOL jet to their name—the P. 1127. But the
Hawker Siddeley name means far more than this. It
represents a complex of companies that make Hawker
Siddeley a world-size industrial group.
You find Hawker Siddeley products almost every-
where. They go down on the farm —haul trains—steer
and power ships—probe space—equip power stations—
roll roads—store heat—fly people—transform electricity
—pack food—fuel aircraft. And maintain a daily
turnover of $A2| million. Aircraft of the future are
already part of this turnover. But only part. That’s what
makes Hawker Siddeley a group. With group power.
HAWKER
SIDDELEY
18 ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I.
Represented in Australia by: Aviation: Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty.
Ltd., New South Wales. Industrial: Hawker Siddeley Brush Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service
NTB29


December 31
C-ane crushed'
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
'000 tons
Prod, raw sugar
288
393
376
422
396
'000 tons
Gross profit
39
57
56
56
51
(a) $000
n/a
n/a
1367
1644
Dr6
Depreciation $000
165
182
186
307
314
Taxation $000
n/a
n/a
310
542
35
Net profit $000
360
580
871
795
Dr355
Earning rate p.c.
12.0
19 3
27.3
24.1
Dividend rate p.c. 8
Earning rate on total
10
12
12
6
funds p.c.
6.8
9.4
11 8
9.4
Current ratio
0.78
1.1
1.58
1.08
0.71
Fixed assets $000
Dividend yield
5896
5906
6331
7716
9197
(b)
Pnce/earn. ratio
5.6
4.0
4.1
6.1
—
(b)
12 0
12.5
10.5
12 1
High price (c)
1.83
3.70
3.90
2.45
2.10
Low price (c)
1.34
1.96
2.38
1.55
1.50
(a) Profit before
tax
and depreciation.
(b)
End of
June, month account presented,
year.
(c) following
calendar
Paid up capita!
$23,350,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
0
0
NEW ISSUE
FOR 7 YEARS
5i% 12 MONTHS
OtW rates and terms available see Protpectus for foil
dataih, Prospectus and application form available from:
• All MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• AU BRANCHES OF THE AJNX BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF LA.C f
Applications will proceed Only on one of foe forme
of application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus,
ifiAe wmmmns ~~ iah nrm & co.
iOO5 Member* ef foe sfo tk £xdtattge, Melbourne,
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Fairymead and the Sugar Crunch
THERE can be no doubt about the
thumping impact of last year’s mix-
ture of drought and lower sugar
prices on Fairymead Sugar Co. the
balance sheet is evidence enough. But
there are prospects that, even at current
low world sugar prices, Fairymead may
be capable of presenting a much healthier
set of accounts next year, even though it
may take some years before dividends will
get back to the old 12 percent rate from
last year’s decimated 6 percent payout.
For liquidity is going to be a dominant
feature of life at Fairymead for some time,
representing a dramatic turn of the wheel
from the years of plenty when the major
problem was in spending money rather
than raising it.
Last year’s series of problems meant
that not only were shareholders’ funds hit
by the net loss for the year of $345,292,
but that they also suffered a $198,000
drain when the company paid its dividend
out of the large dividend equalisation re-
serve created for the purpose. And then,
on top of that, the company spent a fur-
ther $l.B million on fixed assets, which it
normally may have been able to cope with
mainly from cash flow and by selling up
its $600,000 loans to other companies. In-
stead, it had to borrow another $2.2 mil-
lion from its accommodating banker, the
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney Ltd.,
and another $144,000 from elsewhere.
It is noteworthy that, in this situation,
the company did not pursue the traditional
course of helping itself over its temporary
cash shortage by letting its trade creditors
remain unpaid for a bit longer and press-
ing its debtors for earlier settlement; in
fact, its debtors increased by about
$160,000 and creditors were reduced by
about $lOO,OOO, presumably to help out
those growers and suppliers who may have
been even more severely affected by
drought and sugar price problems,
It is also intriguing that the board should
have spent some of last year’s scarce cash
in buying a further (and explained)
$lOO,OOO worth of shares in companies
listed on stock exchanges. These must have
been a disastrous buy; the book value of
investments is now $141,454 against a
market value of only $108,408, indicating
that about $33,000 of their value has been
i ost i n the latest year,
__
Y ET U whlle th e latest accounts suggest
m ( )ne y 1S tight at Fairymead, the
e y t 0 tEe station is the sugar price. This
18 .f, ven tho . u S h tEe significant increases in
mi . capacity and the important diversifi-
cations into cattle, irrigated cotton, and
wheat have offset the price problem to
some extent. It is the need to get mill
peaks up as high as possible to counter
lower prices that prompted Fairymead s
chairman, Mr. Charles .Young, to press
* ast wee h for a further increase from the
authorities from the latest peak of 67,000
tons °t A I sugar.
The 1966 crop is estimated to be a
record 540,000 tons from which 72,000
tons of 94 NT sugar (up 40 percent on
1965) should be produced. This means
that the company will be taking pot luck
on sales of this 5000 tons excess over its
mill peak.
Last year irrigation saved the crop
from the worst effects of the drought,
and 50,627 tons of 94 NT sugar were
produced from the 396,000 tons cane
crop, but the net trading result was a
substantial loss. (In a similar dry year,
1957, the crop was only half this at
182,000 tons, and a nominal profit was
still possible, indicating how the indus-
try’s economics have changed in the past
decade.)
Fairymead has trebled its gross invest-
ment in fixed assets since 1962, financed
by ploughback of profits and provisions,
and by a placement of 150,000 20s.
shares (since subdivided into dollar units)
at 50s. lid. premium in December, 1963.
Capital expenditure seems to be tapering
off, for at December 31, 1965, expenditure
not provided for in the accounts but con-
tracted for was $263,084 compared with
$632,800 at 1964 balance date.
The unfortunate loss of $355,000 in
1965 trading is the first in at least 35
years. Depreciation was slightly higher
at $314,000, and the company was still
liable for $35,000 tax.
Besides sugar production and milling
at Fairymead in the Bundaberg district
(worse hit by the recent drought than
northern sugar areas), the company has
for years run cattle on its Fairymead land
not under sugar, and has a Hereford
stud property at Mittagong, N.S.W. It
also runs Croydon station in the Fitzroy
Basin, in partnership with Provincial
Traders. As a by-product of cane pro-
duction, molasses is sold for stock-feeds.
Unfortunately last year’s drought affected
cattle operations when sugar income
needed supplementing.
The cattle properties—running 15,350
head valued at $596,474 (or just under
$4O each) at balance date —were currently
operating profitably, and increasing in
value with the growing demand for beef.
The directors are still confident. They
consider the company will continue to
earn satisfactory profits, under normal
circumstances. But it looks as if the sugar
situation will stay abnormal for a while
yet. The crunch in world sugar prices,
from a record post-war price of £stg.los
a ton in November, 1963 to £l6§ in
June of this year, is the biggest cloud
hovering over Fairymead and all other
Australian sugar producers.


Share
Par
l. Div.
1 Year
IWeek
1 Fri.
1 1966
T urnover
1 Yield %
Value! cents
1 ago
1 ago
| close
(High |Low
! Syd.
| Melb.
1 Div.|Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
| 1 80) 2 28) 2.40
1 2.391 1.90
11,200
7,40C
Ampol Exp.
.50
| 1 .181 1 231 1.1E
1.45
1 85
10,600
6,500
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
3 90
1 5 021 5 02
5 52
4 80
400
A.O.G.
.50
I 2 30
| 2 5C
2 6C
2 61
2 25
15,550
5,200
B.H. South
.50
12
1.99
| 2 54
2.56
2.9C
2 2'
20,350
26,100
4.9
7.5
C.R.A.
.50
8
1 3.1C
f 5 15
5 22
5.2'
3.92
9,950
21,050
1.5
4.0
C’wtth 'Min.
1 OO
7
1 1 78
'] 2 41
2.45
2 4f
1.90
2,700
2,500
3.3
5.6
K. 1, Scheel.
.50
10
1 31
2.0'
1.97
3.25
1 8'
14,800
4,600
Mount Isa
.50
5
3.55
4 2C
4.22
4.55
3.92
32,925
36,650
1.2
1.6
Mt. Morgan
1 00
12
1 8(
2 46
2 62
2.5'
1.9C
37,200
21,700
4.8
9.1
Mt. Lyell
.25
3
1.0C
1 1 31
1 37
1.46
1.25
4,400
15,300
1.8
4.0
New B.H.
.62
38
3.55
5 12
5 3C
5.3C
4.42
4,075
3,300
7.2
10.2
Oil Search
.50
. 2C
. 2C
.16
.20
.12
22,900
6/800
Renison
.50
10
5 6C
6 05
7.2C
7.50
5 00
350
550
Santos
.25
1 8£
3 02
2.98
3 09
1.40
10,800
7,300
West. Min.
.50
10
2.25
4 62
5 0C
5.02
2 45
42,550
42,800
2 0
2.2
Woodside
.50
I
.30
.79
.80
.85
.24
14,800
39,700
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4 16
1.04
1 08
I 1 07
1.101 1 00'! 12,7501 18.2001 3.91 8.9
Adams, W.
1.00
12 5
3.03
2 5C
2.50
2 90
2.3C
1,500
900
6.0
12.1
Adel. Steam
.50
4 25
. 7C
.69
.70
.80
.64
800
8,100
Advertiser
.50
5
2 27
1.75
1.76
2 50
1 67
2 8
Allen, S.
1 00
10
1 8-
1 56
1 56
2.10
1 56
6.4
9 6
Allied Mills
.50
6
1 78
1.9C
1.88
1.90
1.67
23,000
1.500
3 9
7 7
Amalg. C+iem.
.50
5 65
.75
.71
.70
1 50
.69
8,400
2,600} 8 1
11 6
A.W.A.
.50
8
2.40
1.95
1 89
2 42
1.89
10,800
5.000 4.2
7 6
Ampol
.50
7
.95
.76
.71
1 02
.71
40,409
40.6001 9 91 11 8
. 50
5
.66
.79
.79
.03
.73
25,400
36,900 6 3
12.1
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1 34
1 65
1 '64
1.70
1.43
5,400
11,500| 3.0
5.8
Assoc. Pulp
1.00
9
1.44
1 46
1 41
1.74
1.37
2,500
5,500| 6 4
750| 2 8
19,300] 3.9
2.8001 6 5
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
5.35
6 2C
6 25
6.30
5 65
1/500
A.K. Cement
Aust. Chem.
.50
1.00
5
10
‘1.35
' 2.63
1 33
1.77
1 29
'1.55
1 62
2 55
1.20
1 55
5,200
7,300
7-6
9 0
A X. 1.
Aust. Fert.
2 00
2 00
20
20
5 50
5 05
5 94
4.70
5 94
4.70
6 02
5 20
5 40
4 10
8,650
300
12/550
600
3 4
3.4
5 0
5 6
6.0
2 6
4 3
3.9
2 7
4 7
4.5
4 5
53
3.4
6.7
A. (x. C.
A.P.M.
A. Newsprint
A.
Bank Adel.
Bank N.S.W.
Bellambi
Berlei
B.
Bonds Ind.
Boral
Borg Warner
.50
1.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
2 00
.50
1 00
.50
.50
.50
1.00
.50
7.5
8.75
20
10
10
20
5
15
7 5
5
10
6
5
1 46
1 1.50
3 20
4 50
2 60
1 5.70
2 05
2 70
1 48
1 03
2 23
2 13
1 51
1.62
3 30
3.90
2 25
5 26
1 85
3 20
1 72
1.12
1 86
1.73
1 51
1 55
3 35
3 90
2 35
5.18
1 88
3.19
1 68
1 10
1 89
1 78
1 52
1.87
3 45
4.05
2 46
5 68
2 44
3 30
1 87
1.16
2 40
2.05
1 22
1 51
3.15
3 75
2 15
5 02
1 85
3 00
1.52
.98
1 83
1.70
11,650
22,100
200
5,650
14,450
2,300
500
26,900
5,500
18,950
2,800
6,600
37.200
200
800
10.200
6,100
12,950
9 3
9.3
6 5
8.3
7.1
7.4
9 1
10.1
6 6
9.3
7.1
8.3
Brambles
Brit. Tobacco
B.H.P.
.50
1 00
2 00
50
7.5
12
18.4
1.66
1 61
4 80
1 77
2 45
5.90
65
3 75
3 65
2 49
.62
6 01
1 25
.97
1 50
1 77
2 42
6 28]
OV ( .06
1 821 1 67
2 46! 1 77
6 281 4.54
5,500
14,700
35.550
160,040
19,700
4,800
9,500
111,700
8 8
4 2
5 0
2.9
12.3
2 3
7 4
5.4
Burns Philp
C.U.B. "Z”
Carp., W. R.
Carrier Air
C'maine Perk
Chamberlain
Clyde Ind,
Coal Allied
1 00
1 00
.50
.50
1 00
.50
.50
.50
10
13
7.5
4
17
6 25
7 5
5
3 65
3 50
2 26
.60
5 65
1 28
1 04
.92
3 95
3 70
2 47
62
6 00
1 27
.96
1 40
/3
4 10
3 88
2 75
80
6 40
1 38
1 10
1 56
55
.3 65
3 40
2 41
60
5 93
1 23
.91
1 26
1,500
6.900
2.900
20,800
2,200
4,050
9,650|
4,450
600
800
9,500
7,450
4,400
2,350
2.700
5,800
1,600
10 1
2 5
3 5
3 0
6 5
2 8
4 9
7 8
3 6
13 7
6 7
6 2
6 3
12 8
5 3
23 3
12.3
9 9
Coles, G. J.
C.S.R.
C.A.G.A.
C.B.C.
. 50
5 5
1 38
1 30
1 31
1 41
1 20
22,050
76,450
4 2
6 4
12 5
3 15
2 97
2 99
3 26
2 72
34,150
19,500
4 2
7 7
1 00
10
.70
1 35
1 40
1 65
1 30
5,500
29,050
7 1
11 5
1 00
10
2 45
2 30
2 36
2 65
2 15
3,550
400
4 2
7 4
C. B.A.
1 00
10
2 15
2.22
2 ??
2 25
2 0?
4Ann
5.250
4 5
6 4
Com. Union
.50
4 25
1 27
1.10
1 23
1.44
1.12
1,1001
500
3.5
5.1
C. 1. G,
Concrete Ind.
Consol. Press
Containers
Courtaulds
Crane, G. E.
.50
.50
2 00
1 00
1 00
11
6 25
16
5
12 5
2 40
40
3 30
2 75
83
3 80
2 80
.35
2 80
2 75
62
4 70
2 701
35
2 62|
2 65
60
5 00
3 32
48
3.40
2 82
75
5 0?
2 55
26
2 601
2 58
57
4 10
3,450
46,500
8,700|
2,600
14,350
3,8001
|
2,400
7,200
6,100
8,300
4 1
3 8
6 0
8 3
10 0
12 9
7.6
9 8
11 3
Cresco
2 00
20
5 60
5 00
5.001
6.25|
4.90|
|
3 2]
6.0|
9 31
Cust. Cred.
Cyclone
.50
1 00
5
10
.65
1 68
.78
1 08
.84|
1 081
.84]
1 481
.63
1 041
15,200|
2,0501
4,900|
4,3001
9 *9
Dalgety
2 50
25 5
4 70
4 901
5 O0|
5.001
4 60|
2,200|
5 1|
9 -6
D.F.C.
2 00
23
6 40
6 20 i
6.201
6 551
6.20 1
1,0501
3 71
'Drug Houses
1 00
10
1 50
1 791
1 781
1 93|
1 581
17,3001
4,200|
5.6
8.0
Dunlop
1 OO
8
1 88
1 24 j
1 221
1 65!
1 201
23,7001
27,4001
6.6
10.8
.50
7 5
2 04
1 81|
1 791
2.15
1 78
8001
3001
4.2|
10 4
E.Z. Ind.
1 00
18
1 90
2 351
2.341
2 40
2.12
18,250!
13,300]
7.71
9 3
Elders, G. M.
1.00
10
2 00
2 22
2 281
2 38
2 01
4,3001
5,2001
4 4|
9 8
Electronic "B’’
1 00
10
1 09
.84
.841
1 04
.80
3,750|
22,600)
11.9|
16.0
Email
.50 .
3
62
.40
401
.51
.37
12,700|
|
11,400]
7-5|
7.8
E.S.A.
2 50
14 69
4 75
5 80
5.801
5 80
5 20
3001
2 5|
4 8|
Evans Deakin
.50
6 25
1 25
1 29
1 31
1.40
1 26
2,100
Fairfax, J.
.50
8 5
2 75
2 14
2 11
2.80
2 10
13,000
3,300
4 oi
5 4
Fairymead
1 00
6
1 98
1 55
1 60
2 10
1.50
1,200
3.8!
Felt. Text.
.50
5
.72
56
.54
.70
.54
11,800
9,500
9 3
13.1
Fibre Cont.
.50
6
1 65
1 32
1.321
1 40
1 23
800
2,700
4 *5
8 7
Fielding, J.
1 00
17 5
3 53
3 60
3 501
3.72
2 43
2,650
5 01
7 2
Gen. Credits
50
4
57
52
• 57|
.60
.50
1,5001
18,400
7 Oi
10 5
Gen. Ind.
2 00
12
1 04
1 27
1 29}
1 38
.95
4,5001
1,700
9 3!
18.8
Gollin
.50
4 5
.70
80
■ 74|
.88
.70
2,200|
6.1)
12 0
Gordon, Gotch
.50
10
2 55
2 17
2 02|
2 70
1.17
3,600]
2,400
5.0]
6 8
Grace Bros.
.50
6 25
1 58
1 77}
1.79 (
1.91|
1.69| 16,300|
900
3.5|
6 6
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
| SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
1 Week
1 ago
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
} 'last
All ords .
325.02
327.14
103.80
104.59
50 Leaders . . .
108.71
101.11
Banks ....
168.53
168.82
110.26
110.19
Other Fin. . . .
499.55
496.85
■68.52
68.95
Pastoral ....
224.77
229.64
114.55
116.12
Transport . . .
489.64 ■
493.81
98.16
99.45
Retails (Merchants)
336.56
335.43
93.58
95.48
Services ....
43.67
43.16
Poods
174.39
173.12
104.91
104.19
Textiles ....
Chemicals .
181.45
177.74
74.80 ■
74.25
336.12
331.18
83.59
82.83
Electrical .
409.95
403.02
61.14
59.81
Paper ....
Building
103.94
102.97
678.73 '
669.13
91.66
91.26
Fuel power
169.37
166.28
Automotive . . .
726.47
722.10
75.99
74.80
Steel, Eng. . .
462.17
485.73
113.81
119.69
Non-ferrous . . .
1205.34
1220.31
203.71
206.61
OIL I
SUGAR
Week
ago j
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
■last
Brisbane . . . . 1
Melbourne . .
159.76 1
133.94 I
153.80
129.94 1
116.60
116.42
Share Par
1 Div.
1 Year
IWeek
1 Fri.
| 1966
1 Yield %
Div.lEarn.
vaiue| cents
1 ago
1 ago
I close
|High |Low
1 Syd.
f Melb.
Hardie, J. 1 00
Healing, A. G. .50
Herald, W. T. .50
Hooker, L. J. .50
Humes 1.00
Huttons .50
10
12.5
12 5
5
5 00
59
4 50
.32
2 96
.95
4 75; 4 65) 5.06}; 4 40! 1,150
251 .261 -581 .19 13,300
4 501 4.60| 5 22 | 4 35} 3,600
..25! -25j .36| . 24; 24,610
2 401 2 451 2 90J 2.10 3,800
.91| .90! 1.04| .881 1,300
1 1,500
| 10,800
! 16,150
7,400
5,950
400
2 2
2.7
5 1
5
I 6 4
1 32 7
1 3.7
1 15 8
! 8 3
1. A. C. . 50
5.9
.85
.86
• 8f
1 .86
.751 7,200
24,100
7 0
15
4 38
4 0C
1 4 0(
1 4 321 3.601 8.55<
10,000
1 6.25| 1 3C
1 .84! .8t
1.45
.8!
12,950
4,500
7.4; 9.6
4 9| 8 7
2 8| 8.1
1 15 3
3.9| 8 9
6 75
1 48
1 41
1 391 1.61
1.31
13,500
6,800
Jones, Henry 1 00
10
3.5C
3 60
3 55
4 1C
3 40
2,800
1,000
Kelvinator .50
7 5
.43
2 30
.20
1 95
.20
1.90
.26
2 08
.18
1.90
1,300
3,400
6,500
1,600
12 5
1.05
1.19
1 2C
1 3C
1.15
100
Lend Lease .50
5
.90
1 12
1 14
1.25
1 01
7,800
11,400
Life Savers .50
8
2.4C
2 43 2 43
2 55
2 .2*
5,020
1,400
Lysaght, J. 1 00
11
2 78
2 201 2.18
2.62
2 If
3.100
L 1,900
. 5 0| 8 4
3 9| 3 9
5 9| 6.4
M.L.C. 2 00
MacRobertson 1 00
Marrickvi-lle .50
31.68
8
7.5
7.25
1.74
1 18
8 261 8 20
1 151 1 35
1 35! 1 25
8 40
| 1.55
1 5'5
7.66| 3,350
1 1.10| 2,900
1 221 9.700
50
i 1,500
1,500
'Mauri Bros. .50
5
1 65
1 971 2.00
2 08
1 82
6,450
3,800
2 5
M. Nickless 1 00
12 5
3 20
2 75
2.86
3.20
2 7f
1,700
700
Mcllwraith, J. .50
7.5
1 53
1 33
1.22
1 50
1.16
1,400
2,800
<6 1
McPhersons 2 00
16 6
3 88
3 65
3.60
4 08
3.40
1,300
4,200
4 6
Millaquin 1 00
20
3 50
2 75
2.75
3.18
2.6C
300
7.3
Miller, R. W. 1 00
10
1 68
1 73
1.70
2 07
1 63
7,600
4,300
5 9
14.7
Minster 1 00
20
6 25
3 40
3.40
5 68
3.13
1,500
3,200
5.9
12.6
Morris, Philip 2 0
24
5.25
6.90
6.90
7.36
6 2C
100
200
3.5
12.1
Moulded Prod, .50
5
.90
.70
.68
.80
.59
2,250
12,000
7.4
9.2
Myer .50
8 75
3.00
2 91
3.19
3 56
2 85
14,100
31,550
2.7
6.4
Myttons .50
6
1 61
1 54
1 54
1.64
1 42
500
1,100
3.9
8 5
N. Z. Forest 1 25
9 56
2 75
2 94
2.97
3 02
2 60
2,650
3,600
3 2
8.6
Nat. Bank 1.00
10
2 18
2 00
1 99
2 10
1 87
11,400
12,600
5 0
5 3
Nat. Consol. .50
10
2 60
2 351 ?.28
2 40
2.27
1,700
15,200
4.4
8.4
Nat. Dairy 2 25
26 7
40 00
39 00
39 00
42 00
38 00
2.5
5 5
News .50
5
1 40
1 53
1 53
1 82
1 36
400
2,500
3.3
6.8
N.Z. 'Ins. 1 25
11 5
3 03
2 60
2 75
2 82
2 60
500
4.9
6 2
Olympic .50
5
.95
.72
.70
.80
.64
13,900
37,400
7.1
14.1
Optical 1 00
15
4 55
4 15
4 15
4 70
4 10
600
3 6
7.2
Overseas .50
5 5
1.10
1 04
1.07
1 16
1.03
4,600
22,700
5.1
10.5
P.G.H. .50
8
1 60
1 35
1 33
1 60
1.20
4,100
6.C
10.0
Peko .50
8
1 45
2 46
2 501 2 54
1 85
19,950
9,300
3.0
5.1
Penfolds .50
6.25
1 45
1.63
1 63} 2 03
1.50
800
3 £
5 3
Perp. Trustee 2 00
17
3.70
3.77
3.80| 3.90
3.55
10C
4 £
5.7
Petersville .20
2 5
.45
.59
.57
.’64
.55
19,700
48,900
4 4
6 4
Peters, W.A. .50
6 25
1.77
1 80
1 8C
1 02l 1 70
3 5
6.4
Pioneer Cone.- .50
6 25
1 35
1 49
1 49
1 62
1.37
19,430
4,300
4 2
7.9
Prestige .50
5
1 30
85
.85
1.05
.80
5,300
7 4
14 4
Provincial T. .50
5 5
1 18
1 14
1 15| 1 30
1.0C
3,100
4 -E
10 5
Pye .50
5
1 87
1 32
1 32| 1 55
1.20
800
3 8
13.6
Q’land Can .50
5
1 08
98
92( 1 13
.92
5.4
Q’land Cement 2 00
20
7 13
7 30
7 251 7.70
7 00
2 8
5 6
Q’land Ins. 1 00
12 5
3 75
4 20
4.20| 4 50
4 0C
500
3.0
7 0
Q’land Press 1 00
16
5 30
4 86
5.05| 5 45
4.78
350
3 2
5 6
Reeds .50
7
1 99
1 50
1 49! 1 74
1 48
3,100
4 7
7.8
Repco .50
7.5
2 08
2 00
1.991 2 24
1 96
15,800
22,650
3.8
6 3
Rocla 50
7
2 10
1 80
1 80
2.14
1 78
100
3,400
3 9
6 8
Rothmans 1 00
20
3 50
2 80
2 75
3.151 2 68
3,900
3,600
7 3
14 1
S.A. Rubber .50
5 62
1 43
1 02
.96
1 25
95
700
2,900
5.8
14.7
S.T.P. Hold .50
6.25
.85
.95
.95
1.00
.88
4,200
6 6
15 2
Schweppes .60
5.75
1 55
1.53
1.65
1 85
1 45
2,400 J
2,300
3 3
5 2
Shelleys .50
7.5
2.30
2 55
2 50
2 55
2 30
500
3.0
8 3
Simpson Pope .50
1
.43
.30
.35
.46
.27}
5,800
800
2 9
8.7
Sleigh, H. C. .50
5
.71
.56
.56
.72
.55
19,400
33,900
8.9
12.3
Smith, How. 2 00
10
2 46
2 50
2.50
2 57
2 39
3,700
|
1,700
4 0
6.9
Softwood 1 00
10
2 75
2 50
2 651
3 25|
2 07!
4,5001
3.81
14.8
Sth. Brit. Ins. 1.25
14 16
3 68
3 73
3.75|
3 85
2 06
3,0001
3 8
7.0
Steamships .50
6 66
.90
.95
.99
1 05
.88
21,400
3,100
6.7
10.9
Stedman, J. .50
7 5
1 88
1 68
1 80
1 88
1.60
3,300
4 2
7.8
Swan Brew. .50
3.12
2 23
2 41
2 43
2 50
2 21
10,400
16,150'
2.7
3.2
Tarax .50
6
.86
1 00
1 05
1 22
1 00
2,650
1,100
5.7
9.6
Taubmans .50
8
1 35
1 03
1 00
1 18
.90
1,000
14,200
8.0
93
TV Corp. 1 00
20
2 60
2 72
2.60
2.75
2 08
900
400
7.7
7.7
Thiess .50
.38
.69
.66
76
.63
8,900
9.8
Tooheys .50
4 25
.95
1 13
1.08
1.21
1 08
40,450
3.9
6.1
Tooth 1 00
15.75
4 53
5 32
5.18|
5 70
4 90
18,800
10,750
31
4.4
Union Carb. 1.00
10
2 90
3 56
3 751
3.75
3.28
1,100
100
2.7
5.4
U.E. Box .63
5 84
1 33
1 22
1 24!
1 48
1 20
100
4.7
112
Walker, F. J. 1 00
12 5
1.45
1 46
1 46!
1 63
1 25
2,400
8.6
8 8
Waltons .50
6 5
.85
1 02
1 011
1 12
.85
30,850
8,500
6.2
9.9
Webster, A. G". .50
8
1 25
1 20
1.20!
1 50
1 20
650
6 3
12.7
Will’ms, F. W. 1 00
10
3 25
3 25
3.36|
4 04
2.95
18,600
3 0
1.1
Woolworths .50
6
1 45
1 36
1.331
1 44
1.30]
59,775
39,300
4.5
6.2
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year Ago
Month ago
Week ago
This Weak
Aluminium, ton
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wire bars, ton
£ 436V4
£ 6641/2
£ 6131/2,
£ 60IV2
Gold 02
£ 12/11/6
£ 12/11/9%
£ 12/11/101/2
£ 12/12/21/2
Lead, cash, ton .
£ 98%
£ 947/a
£ 933/a
£95
Silver, troy, oz
llli/zd.
1113/ 4 d.
112d.
112d.
Tin, cash, ton
£ 13841/4
£ 12921/z
£1275
£ 12883/4
Wolfram, unit, c.i.f. . . .
£11%-£ 113/4
£ 127/a- £ 133/4
£ 13- £ 14
£ 13-£ 14
Zinc, cash, ton ....
£ 1103/4
£ 1013/a
£ 99
£ 983/,
Wheat, Australian ton
£ 25%
£ 26%
£ 26 ll-16th
£ 26 ll-16th
Linseed Oil, ton ....
£ 48%
£ 86V2
£ 84
£ 841/2
Cocoa, 50 kilos ....
97/6
185/-
198/6
186/6
Coffee
withdrawn
withdrawn
withdrawn
withdrawn
Cotton, American middling
lb
23.45d.
23.6d.
23.6d.
23.6d.
Desiccated Coconut, ton
£ 185
£ 1381/2
£ 140
£ 140
Rubber, lb
213/ 4 d.
21V 2 d.
20 ll-16th d.
20% d.
Sugar, ton
£ 191/4
£ 191/4
£ 163/4^
£ 16
Tea, quality, lb
4/2-6/1
4/6-6/9
4/7-6/2
Wool Tops, 64s, lb. . . .
108d.
121d.
121d.
121d.
(All figures
in sterling)
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
London
"Financial Times"
1 New
] Dow
York
Jones
Tokyo
D. Jones
| Inds.
| Secs.
Gold
| Inds.
Rails
Avge.
Jan. 3, 1966
1966 high
1966 low
Month ago
Week ago
Latest
338 7
374
337 3
373 0
372 2
373.3
1 78 74
79 43
76 42
77 30
76 42
76.14
61 3
65 2
58 4
59 0
59 4
59 4
965 54
995 15;
864 14
891 75.
8 Q 4 261
896 16|
247 38
271 72
220 54
231 16
96
231.56
1430 13
1588 73
1412 98
1550 06
lnio 42
1513.38
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
iINDUSTRIALI MINING ]
INDUSTRIAL!
MINING
Sales 1 Value 1 Sales | Value 1
Vol. | $ | Vol. | $
1000 1 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
Sales |
Vol. |
1000 |
Value |
$ 1
1000 |
Sales | Value
Vol. I $
1000 | 1000
Week ' before
Week to Friday
2429 213558 7| 2310 7| 1356 9
2874.9|3531.4| 1865.0| 1426.0
1750 1
2256 I
2594 |
3293 |
2253 1 1325
1910 | 1857
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend . . 630
MELBOURNE
dividend 5 22
earnings 8.34
LONDON ( F.T.)
dividend 5.19
earnings 6 99
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3 31
earnings 6 08
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short 4.95 4.94
Medium .... 5.13 5.12
Long ~ ~ 5.25 5.25


Esanda
Limited
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase leasing and other finance operations.
UNSECURED
NOTES
UP TO
UNSECURED NOTES
Currency issued at par Interest rate
10 years 7V»*%»
8 years 7*/2%
6 years 7’^%
5 years 7Vi °o
4 years
3 years 6%%
Interest per annum payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only on one of
the forms of application referred to in, and
attached to, printed copies of the prospectus
which are available from
Members of Stock Exchanges
and at any office of
The English Scottish and Australian Bank Limited
«
ESAJVDA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
365 George Street, Sydney
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
MAN ON THE LAND
Thinking about Butter Prices
Old and new guards in dairying
THE public relations and advertising
campaign on behalf of certain mar-
garine manufacturers seems to as-
sume blandly that if margarine quotas are
abolished then margarine will gain at the
expense of butter. While this is quite
certainly a possibility it is not necessarily
axiomatic.
In overseas countries, and particularly
advanced countries, butter has learned to
live with margarine and is more than
holding its own. In the United States, for
example, the dairy industry alone, accord-
ing to Department of Agriculture esti-
mates, is likely to get bigger returns in
1966-67. Part of this is attributed to an
increasing preference for butter, and
butter-type products such as ghee, in the
middle and upper income groups. Grains,
including safflower and cottonseed used
in making margarine, are expected to
show , a drop in prices up to 18 percent,
In Britain, West Germany, and Canada
butter is making a strong comeback,
The key to this reversal of the trend
is price and quality. It seems demon-
strably clear that people will buy butter
provided the taste is right and the price
is right. Undoubtedly packaging and pro-
motion play their part, but price and
quality can keep butter in the market”- —
particularly a market which is affluent or
which has an affluent section.
The Australian dairyfarmer, who is in-
clined traditionally to an anti-margarine
policy, is currently thinking very deeply
on the butter price problem. Price is by
far the bigger part of the problem, because
it is conceded that quality is largely a
matter of taste and that the technical
know-how is available to alter taste, pack-
aging, etc., to consumer demand. Austra-
lian know-how is of a high order. The
current margarine public relations cam-
paign will hasten moves to correct the
butter price problem.
Within the dairying industry it really
comes down to a battle between the old
guard and the new. The old guard, men
who remember the depression when milk
could not be sold, insist that rigid quotas
against margarine must be maintained and
that the dairy subsidy must be kept high.
The other viewpoint, held by some farm-
ers (perhaps not yet in the majority), is
that an alteration of the system of pay-
ments, from a butterfat basis to a whole-
milk basis, would enable a reduction in
the price of butter.
WITH butter more attractively priced as
compared with margarine, and de-
velopment of other dairy industry products
such as cheeses and ghee, the industry
overall could not only survive but could
improve its position. We readily concede
there are complexities attached to this,
but any suggestion that the dairy industry
is standing by and relying only on Gov-
ernment subsidy is just not so.
It cannot be stressed too strongly that
the price margin in the battle between
butter and margarine is slight. The public
relations campaign on behalf of margarine
rather distorts this price difference. It is
pointless comparing the price of cooking
margarine with butter. The difference be-
tween table margarine and butter is a
few cents at the outside. Table margarine
could be cheaper, by a marked degree, if
unlimited supplies of imported oil seeds
were permitted in free of tariff. But is this
likely?
We think not. We think that there is
a case to be said for it, but that protection-
ism is too firmly rooted in all Australian
political parties. We think it just as un-
likely that the dairy subsidy will be re-
duced or abolished yet there is a case
to be said for this also.
We would hope, however, that politi-
cians acquaint themselves with the poverty
shift in Australia. In our youth, in the
19305, we lived for a year in a N.S.W.
dairying area. At school we were one of
the lucky ones in the front row; we had
shoes. The kids behind did not. We had


SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change
their addresses are. asked to notify THE
BULLETIN Subscription Department
well in advance in order to avoid a
break in the continuity of service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former address,
to the Subscription Department.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
LOAN
CLOSES MONDAY!
A new $4,550,000 Loan is your opportunity to gain the
maximum return from a Government-Guaranteed security
' 1 ■ v- f > . . n
"V.
*'• *. : 4-
r'
V \ v •
10 OR 15
YEARS
3
8
%■ *
FOR 7 YEARS
Highest Interest offered by any Government-Guaranteed security
now available in Australia.
Absolute Security. The N.S.W. Government unconditionally
guarantees interest payments every 6 months and full repayment
of principal at maturity. The Loan is also secured on the Board’s
annual revenue, estimated at $62,000,000 in 1966/67.
Cash Applications will be accepted in full or by instalments;
investors pay 10% deposit on application, and the balance by 30th
September, 1966.
Two Conversions. Holders in Loans Nos. 150 and 262 (5£%)
maturing on Friday, Ist July, are invited to convert to the new Loan.
Trustee Security. An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Tax Concessions. An approved security for Trustees of Pension
and Superannuation Funds who wish to qualify for Taxation
Concessions.
Invest or Convert at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New
South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of
New South Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the Board’s
offices.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by A. C. GOODE & CO., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
29.801
butter on our sandwiches while they had
fat. Yet, being children, we often swopped
and enjoyed the change.
It was hard then, in the country, and
there are still perhaps pockets of depres-
sion. But the real eye-opener today is to
take a walk through parts of Redfern in
Sydney, or parts of Fitzroy in Melbourne,
and adjoining areas. Children still suffer.
The pensioner problem is very real also.
No one with any feeling could dispute
the wisdom of subsidies based on humani-
tarian motives, as they all were originally.
A lifting of margarine quotas seems de-
pendent on support from those farmers
(an increasing number) growing cotton-
seed, safflower, and peanuts in Australia.
They will not grow them at unpayable
prices.
The object of the margarine advertise-
ments is pretty obviously not the girl with
the safflower on her bread but the politic-
ians. This being the case, it would help
the politicians greatly, and the rest of us
also, if accurate statistics of vyhole-farm
activities were available.
We can readily obtain statistics for
dairying, wheat farming, sheep, cattle,
safflower, cotton, etc. Some very useful
surveys have been conducted for specific
farming areas, revealing whole-farm
activities. But we often wrongly assume
that dairying, or wheat, or sheep, is the
sole source of farm income when it is not.
'J'HE wheat farmer who is solidly behind
wheat stabilisation sells his wool, and
mutton on a free market. Sorne, as the
wool vote indicated, like it that way. The
dairyfarmer who is all for equalisation also
sells veal on an open market and perhaps
peas or maize on a private contract basis.
Compared with the 1930 s the position
has been reversed: the farmer today, with
all his problems, is ahead of his city
counterpart (the argument is to decide
who is the counterpart) and, in many
cases, he gets the best of all worlds. Be-
fore very long we will almost certainly
see some dairyfarmers producing butter-
fat and growing safflower for margarine
at the same time.
The worst thing that could happen
would be that the Australian consumer
ends up paying too high a price for both
his butter and his margarine. As, one way
or another, both the margarine industry
and the dairying industry seem likely to
extract as much as they can from the
Government, the need for accurate, up-to-
date, and impartial statistics becomes
urgent. We may be falling for a trap,
yet we think this sort of activity is more
worth while for our universities than
research into the origins of the Coolgardie
safe.


CANBERRA
BRANCH OFFICE
Two leading manufacturers
connected with the
BUILDING INDUSTRY
are sharing a branch in Canberra.
The venture is successful, but needs a
THIRD PARTNER
We have
* Office and showroom
Civic Centre
* Full-time trained
represen ta tive
* Office staff
This could be the opportunity you
have been waiting for to econ-
omically establish your branch in
Canberra.
Apply in writing to
“Company Branch,
C/oßox 5043 Y, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.”
AGRISEARCH
More Seed from Phalaris
MRS. J. MULLETT, who studies
| seeds for the Victorian Department
of Agriculture, seems to have
found something of much value to farmers
throughout southern Australia striving to
expand their acreages of improved pasture.
She appears to have a way of making
Phalaris tuberosa produce more seed and,
above all, retain it. Consequently, the
entire yield can be collected in one direct
heading of the stand. Such ease and ef-
ficiency in harvesting may be expected to
bring about a sharp reduction in the price
of phalaris seed. Also, with an abundance
of cheap seed available, more farmers will
probably swing to phalaris-sub clover
pastures.
Her method involves spraying a com-
paratively inexpensive chemical on the
crop when it begins flowering. The de-
partment has not yet publicly released
details of the treatment, but the chemical
is said to be napthalene acetic acid. This
compound is well known among orchard-
ists, who have used it for many years to
prevent petal fall.
Officially, it is claimed that the treat-
ment results in a three to fourfold increase
in the amount of seed that can be obtained
from a crop by one harvesting operation.
However, the department stresses that
these figures are derived from experiments
confined to small, single-row plots. Farm-
scale field trials of the method have still
to be performed, but it is highly unlikely
that they will flop.
Readers of this column will recall that
a new strain of phalaris, called “Seed-
master,” was described several months ago.
Briefly, this new strain was specifically
bred to retain its seed but remain identi-
cal to the existing commercial strain in
all other features. Some seed suppliers
have already sown this new improved
strain and many more are intending to
rip up fine old phalaris paddocks and re-
place them with Seedmaster. Mrs. Mul-
lett’s discovery should give them pause,
The rules of seed certification are such
that by so doing they could lose their
accreditation as “certified” producers,
Clearly, Seedmaster provides the ideal
final solution. Therefore, no seed grower
should hesitate to sow it on new ground,
but it may be unwise to plough up a good
existing stand of old phalaris.
A KJ ew Clover
OSE CLOVER (Trifolium hirtum)
is a name quickly acquiring famili-
arity in the West. Farmers in
eastern Australia, too, should at least be
aware of the existence of this new
legume, because it flourishes where the
climate is too dry for sub clover. More-
over, unlike many species of sub clover
and other legumes it does not threaten
the fertility of sheep, as its content of the
oestrogenic sex hormones is extremely
low.
The species is unkown in commercial
agriculture anywhere in the world, with
the exception of California, where farm-
ers have been sowing it for about fifteen
years. Besides Australia, Spain and Israel
are now also beginning to encourage its
use as a pasture plant. Though native
to Asia Minor and the Mediterranean
region, the peasants of these parts have
never cultivated it. The first experimental
sowings in Western Australia were made
in 1951, but seed was not distributed to
farmers until 1960, by which time the
first pure line had been segregated.
Three varieties are presently available
- —Kondinin, Troodos, and Sirent. Two
more, Hykon and Olympus, will probably
be passed on to selected growers later this
year. In addition, several late-maturing
strains have been recognised and could be
offered to farmers if a demand arises.
These are the ones that would suit the
higher rainfall areas and would be of
most interest to farmers in eastern Aus-
tralia.
Rose clover is easily established pro-
vided the seed is not sowm too deeply.
It is not fussy about the type of soil,
except that it will not tolerate water-
logging. Sheep relish it and it grows well
with Wimmera ryegrass and other grasses
and clovers.
Drug to Stop Bloat
FEW subjects in agricultural journals
the world around are discussed more
frequently than the problem of bloat
in ruminants. Now, however, a drug to
stop bloat—and presumably the recurrent
writings on this topic—has been announced
by the State University of Kansas, U.S.A.
It is claimed to be almost 100 percent
effective against the common “foaming”
form of bloat such as occurs typically in
dairy cows grazing lush leguminous
pasture.
The original drug developed at Kansas
by Dr. E. E. Bartley employs an anti-
foaming chemical called poloxalene.
Manufacturing rights have been given to
Smith Kline and French Laboratories,
Philadelphia, Pa. This firm is already
marketing the drug under the trade name
“Bloat Guard” and is aware of the possi-
bilities for extending sales to Australia,
New Zealand, and South America. So we
may expect to see it advertised here soon.
Altogether five American agricultural
universities have tested and have approved
the drug. Administration is by a daily
dose poured over the protein concentrate
offered each cow while she is being
milked. Cost is ten cents a day for
large cows, i.e., those weighing over 10001 b.,
but smaller cattle need only a half dose
with the cost cut correspondingly.
No residues of the drug have been
found in either the milk or the meat of


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN O’BRIEN, formerly of 3 Young
Street, Redfern. TAKE NOTICE that
JOAN O’BRIEN has filed Petition No. 389
o_f 1966 for divorce on the grounds of
DESERTION and SEPARATION not-
withstanding the facts and circumstances
set out in a discretion statement filed
herein and seeks an order for costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before 20th July, 1966. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from SULLIVAN BROTHERS,
Solicitors, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
No. M.C. 85 of 1966
TO: NEAL MICHAEL HOOITES MEUR-
SING, formerly of Hobart in Tasmania,
and 827 Burwood Road, Camberwell, Mel-
bourne, in Victoria. TAKE NOTICE that
MARY JOAN MEURSING, of 2 Carlton
Street. Newtown, in Tasmania, has filed a
Divorce Petition against you on the ground
of DESERTION. Included in the Petition
are claims for custody, maintenance and
costs. AND TAKE NOTICE that if you
intend to defend the Petition you must
file an Answer within 28 days of the publi-
cation of this Notice at the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Mac-
quarie Street. Hobart, from which address
further information can be obtained,
otherwise the Court may hear and deter-
mine the proceedings in your absence.
DATED this 16th day of May, 1966.
C. G. BRETTINGHAM-MOORE, Regis-
trar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: EDITH MAY COLLISS. TAKE
NOTICE that GEORGE ARTHUR MAR-
TIN COLLISS has filed Petition No. 1259
of 1966 for divorce on the grounds of
separation and desertion notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in the
discretion statement filed herein. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before the 22nd day of July, 1966.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Bull Son Schmidt &
Berg, Solicitors, 17 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: CATHLEEN FRASER. TAKE
NOTICE that JOHN CLIFFORD FRASER
has filed a Petition No. 3600 of 1965 for
divorce on the ground of DESERTION. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the nineteenth day
of July. 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Edward
France and Nyman, Solicitors, of 187
Macquarie Street, Sydney. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: DENNIS LYNDON COULSON. TAKE
NOTICE that ANNETTE COULSON has
filed a Petition No. 741 of 1965 for divorce
on the ground of desertion and seeks
orders for custody, maintenance and costs.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building. Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 29th day of July,
1966. You may obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOSEPH P.
SHARAH & COMPANY, of 141 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Regis-
trar.
animals fed the chemical for protracted
periods. The strict American Food and
Drug Act has therefore passed it for farm
use. The drug is palatable to cattle and
does not lose its effectivenesses, i.e., it
continues to prevent bloat after months
of daily consumption.
While the Americans appear to have a
reliable cure for bloat, a New Zealand
scientist, Dr. R. T. J. Clarke, DSIR,
Palmerston North, has advanced a very
plausible explanation of the cause of
bloat. He has found that when cows
fill their rumens rapidly with rich fodder
a great abundance of suitable feed is
presented to the rumen fauna, notably
protozoa.
These glutinous, uni-cellular creatures
consume so much that they literally blow
up and burst. In doing so their ruptured
cells release a chemical that is a strong
foam-stabiliser. Dr. Clarke has success-
fully demonstrated that severe bloating
follows when a large proportion of the
protozoa have been enticed to burst. If
further study shows that Clarke is on
the right lines a more elegant method
of preventing bloat than drug-taking will
surely present itself probably in the
form of a modification of ordinary graz-
ing practices. Perhaps, after all, the
subject of bloat will not disappear from
the literature for a long while yet.
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or ordered
for $l.lO including postage from the
same Library, Box 4088, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 905
ACROSS
1. Faithful dog is topping in successful services. (7)
5. Ran out of steam with paving stones. (7)
9. Pointers to the future pipes in the non-string and
non-percussion sections of the orchestra. (6, 2,3, 4)
10. Higgins is dispirited by Mt. Hera in greater
quantity. (6, 6)
12. Sporting equipment fought with unrefined metal.
„ (10)
13. Do I put a stitched border on half? (4)
15. French battlefield. (4)
17. Ugly term A 1 used in science. (10)
20. Conqueror inaugurated this
journal of the cupola. (8, 4)
22. The suggested deletion from
the bill, being voted against,
isn’t adaptable to courtcraft.
(3, 3,3, 3,3)
24. A liver complaint with big-
toe complications is enough
for fauna. (7)
25. Set among the dumb bag-
pipe. (7)
DOWN
1. This comes from Laos, too.
(4)
2. Former French premier caused
the lady’s civil trouble. (7)
3. What Noll found at the aider-
men’s HQ. (4, 4)
4. Winter footwear. (3)
5. Plump morning music-maker
associated with a mirage. (4,
7)
6. Street place for getting to-
gether. (6)
7. Girl set dislocated cartilage.
(7)
8. Where cowboys once gath-
ered to avoid the big smoke.
(5, 4)
11. One’s drivers distorted the
facts as presented by Com-
munist propagandists. (3, 8)
12. Brain ain’t disturbed by this
ruler of water. (9)
14. Stealth to be expected in the
machination of this footwear
like sneakers. (8)
16. Cabaret to remove the pests
from the German boy. (7)
18. Lot more to be contained in
little accommodation. (7)
19. A job of course once got
you’ll see it as a quantity sur-
veyor. (6)
21. Tricksy-wicksy and cute, the
minute after tea appears. (4)
23. Dictum upset Kitty’s dad. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 904


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guineo Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
Q Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
SPECULATORS DIARY
Affairs with Two Old Loves
Western Mining and Cottees both tempt
THIS has been a week of having affairs with old loves Cottees and Western Mining.
Or are they really mistresses? You will recall that I’ve been involved with both
these ladies only recently. On one occasion to my cost, which tempts me to use a
nasty word. In the other case I broke off the relationship long before the full pleasures
had been realised.
However, in investment, as in all things,
we mustn’t let old prejudices stand in our
way. So I embraced each of these temp-
tresses again.
The reconciliation with Western Mining
came first. It took some courage, after
having sold 200 in April at $3.12 only to
see them go to $5. Subsequently they fell
back to $4.45, but were up to $4.60 be-
fore I was prompted to move back in
again. My reason was not so much that
I was dazzled by the prospects in nickel
near Kalgoorlie, rather because a little
bird from the West no doubt a swan
told me that the nickel deposits could
well be rivalled by an even more recent
mineral discovery copper.
This was some days before the story got
into the papers. At that stage it didn’t
sound very probable. Then, again, neither
did the nickel discovery if you look back
at W.M.C’s quarterly reports prior to the
find at Kambalda. And it had seemed
that there might have been more to the
sustained buying of W.M.C. than nickel.
So, with the generally brighter market out-
look putting me in a more reckless mood,
I bought 200.
Barely had I done this than an even
better looking situation popped up the
announcement that General Foods was
back knocking at Cottees’ door. Rumor
had it that this time the agents from
Maxwell House had the requisite numbers
of silver dollars (American type) in their
hot little hands. So much so that Cottees’
board advised their shareholders not to
sell. Now this was going much, much
further than last time when, in fact, direc-
tors rather pooh-poohed the idea of any
takeover offer being accepted.
THE wording in the latest communique
was sufficient to carry my reckless-
ness to the point of being downright
dangerous. I was a bit slow off the mark,
but was still able to get 200 at $3.50, hav-
ing sold out last time at $2.65 for a loss
of $B7. Some people will never learn!
By now I was in need of a sedative.
Or at least some cash. First I decided to
back out of F. W. Williams. This was
after reading the printed annual report
which added little if anything to the
earlier statement. The fact that directors
did not attempt to amplify their pre-
liminary statement was not, I felt, a good
sign. Anyway, at $3.35, there was a profit
of $35. Small, but acceptable.
Next I picked on Pongrass, the longest-
running member of the portfolio, bought
back in September of last year. My de-
cision was prompted by nothing .more or
less than impatience, spurred, I must
admit, by a recovery in price from 95c
to $1.05. Even so I lost $37.
Finally, I sold my Hanimex, which shot
up in such grand style to $1.65 so soon
after I’d increased my holding to 500.
Here the profit was of more worthwhile
proportion, $72. What’s more, it came up
a good deal sooner than I’d expected.
These sales left me with enough cash
in hand for one more flutter. I narrowed
my choice down to Hotel Metropole at
$1.70 (yielding nearly 9 percent!), Philip
Morris at $6.90 or so (with its regular pre-
resujt run due in July), and Common-
wealth Mining at $2.45 (as a possible
means of getting a foot in the door for
the Consolidated Goldfields float). I de-
cided that the Metropole, like McDowells,
was not really for traders, that Common-
wealth Mining could probably wait an-
other week, but that Philip Morris, being
thinly traded, had best be bought sooner
rather than later. I ordered only a humble
50, but by the week’s end I had not been
able to get even that quantity.
So I was left temporarily with a credit
of $383. By then I was wishing I’d put it
into more Cottees or Western Mining.
BOUGHT
200 Western Mining, $4.60, $938.
200 Cottees, $3.50, $715.
SOLD
200 F. W. Williams, $3.35, $657.
400 Pongrass, $1.05, $412.
500 Hanimex, $1.65, $BO9.
Now the portfolio consists of:
No. of Name of Date Cost Price
Shares Company Bought Per 22/6/6&-
Share
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.73
1000 Westral'ian 8/3/66 0.35 0.38
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.08
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.21
400 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 1.98 1.85
400 Kathleen rights 15/6/66 0.82 0.82
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 2.90
400 Steel Mills 2/5/66 0.68 0.74
500 Haulage 11/5/66 0.54 0.58
400 McDowells 31/5/66 0.75 0.80
200 O'Donnell Griffin 31/5/66 1.23 1.30
400 Tennyson 7/6/66 0.78 0.85
500 AMI 14/6/66 0.42 0.47
200 TNT 15/6/66 1.53 1.47
200 Western Mining 17/6/66 4.60 5.00
200 Cottees 20/6/66 3.50 3.90
Buy Factors?
ONE Melbourne broker has finally
taken the plunge and recommended
the acquisition of Factors shares to
clients. Although many firms feel the
stock is a good buy around present prices
of 17 or 18 cents, none have been game
enough to put their suggestions in a writ-
ten circular. Naturally, the first adventurer
has all his guards up.
Dividend returns do not rate a mention,
despite the predictions that have been
made by Mr. Korman. The broker sees
100 percent market gains as a possibility,
but stresses that a parcel may have to be
held for “several years” before such a
gain can be realised.
One thing is definite. The shares are
undervalued by exactly half at present on
the basis of asset backing. Independent
valuations of the only worthwhile asset,
Holeproof NZ, all concur on $5.58 .million
as its minimum worth. This gives each
of the 50 cent shares an asset backing of
36 cents.


Wi
y
%
n
:
ZM
L
£*.
m
m
m
y
* ** * * •
> / / / / # y •' *
• w s# w * * a* * s* # .*
Si a* n * si m m m m m m
m m m m m "m m m at m m
m m m m m m m m m m m
m m : m m m m & m W m.
~
II
-- ■
O M
SUSRUTA —Surgeon of Old India —one of a series of
oil paintings. © 1958-59 — Parke , Davis & Company
Great Moments in Medicine
Plastic surgery, usually regarded as a recent medical
advance, was practiced thousands of years ago by the
Hindu surgeon, Susruta. He lived in a society that
punished wrongdoers with physical disfigurement.
Therefore, there were many demands for his restora-
tive skills. His writings contributed to the spread of
Hindu medicine throughout the ancient world.
Like their forefathers, modern surgeons share their
discoveries and exchange information in a spirit of
willing and openminded cooperation. Today, the
surgical patient benefits from the collective expe-
rience of this dedicated and highly skilled branch
of the medical profession.
For five generations, Parke-Davis has actively sought
ways to serve the medical profession. As the oppor-
tunities have grown, so have the obligations . . .
obligations to improve the effectiveness of medicines
... to discover and perfect completely new ones . . .
to find better ways to make and test them. Each new
opportunity to serve physicians and pharmacists is a
new opportunity to help all people to better health,
longer life, and happiness.
100
lsMda=a.7A*iE=l
Better Medicines for a Better World
PD3


Hi
Iff
jP* «S !
SY APPOtNTMfNT TO
#€* MAJfSTY TH€ QU6€K
SCOTCH WHISKY OISTIUEHS
JOHN WAU&Cft i. SONS. I TO.
1t« |
'^ v
■
.i' :f ::
pap
.
■
2
at
I
■■■«
#
m
%
\
v ■
s^-i
i
c
**■s
■
•% ,
~„v
/
«g£S
A
*
ft #
3
■
,
o*s?
■
m
Xw
S.O
... ■'■“
tfA
%
s
AWAR*» S 1
Hi
MR
*4
JAmAtC*
>S (**S
KIMSOUS* I* e
BZntfAHl i*“
Hi/Mitn mmwrfuwt t»
Net t PINT 6 FLUID OUNCE*
■-W rri | ——»*-"
More than 40
'single'whiskies
are married to make one
Johnnie Walker
When you pour yourself a Johnnie
Walker you have more than 40
‘single’ whiskies all in one glass
because it does take that many fine
whiskies to make one Johnnie
Walker. That’s the secret of
Johnnie Walker’s smoothness and
mellowness. And 146 years’ skill in
blending. These different whiskies
come from all over Scotland. Rich,
characterful Glenlivets and
Highland malt whiskies tangy
with the faint taste of smoke from
peat fires. Smooth, rounded Islays.
And clean, fresh-tasting grain
whiskies from the Lowlands. Some
of these whiskies are matured as
long as fifteen years none less
than five. All very smooth. Very
mellow. No wonder Johnnie Walker
is the world’s best-loved Scotch. In
miniatures, 5 oz. and 13 oz. flasks,
13 oz. and 26 oz., square bottles.
STRONG
8
d
<si
OZ 21 Ndoa
Say'Johnnie Walker'and enjoy the worlds best loved Scotch
JW.3969
