

The Bulletin
MAY 28, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
LEE KUAN YEW
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


4
4)
M
**m
an
fj
■
it
X
f
sm
V
*
mm S ■ 1
mm s* ...?• 1
Now it’s just like driving in
your favourite armchair!
Why? Because now there’s a wonderful new inside story to tell
about Holden. It starts with the seats. They’re softer. Much, much
softer than ever before. Thick with new design foam padding you
can really sink into. And we’ve changed the
upholstery to bring you one with a look and
feel all its own. Sadlon. Richer, softer, with
far more 'give’. You get the feeling you could
drive relaxed all day in comfort like this
and you can! That’s one big change for ’66.
And here’s another. New power all the way up to 145—lip in
the twin-carburettor ‘X2’. Delivered by engines so superbly
smooth we call them Turbo-smooth. The ride’s new, too, and
new
Turbo-smooth
HOLDEN
just as smooth as the power. The going’s
never been better. Neither has the looking.
For new Holden is freshly styled from bold
new front to sleek new rear. Isn’t it time
you saw your Holden dealer ?
Australia’s Own Car. From $1,770 plus tax.
O. 530
General A lotors-Holden’s


HOW TO RECOGNISE THE COONAWARRA ESTATE VINTAGE WINES
TRAim
HtMrauci
nu.
COONAWARRA
ad
A
WYNN
ESTATE
WINE
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra Estate.
The vintage wines are
HERMITAGE Vintage 1962
CABERNET Vintage 1959
RIESLING Vintage 1965.
a
m
□□
Cfii
The Coonawarra Estate
Vintage label denotes the
best wine of the district for the
particular year.
Like all the truly great wines
of the world, Coonawarra
Estate Vintage wines should be
treated with due respect and
reserved for those occasions
that call for the best.
Estate wines of
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
LETTERS
Trading with the Enemy
Sir,
Some people may “Thank God for
Alan Reid” like your correspondent W. M.
Burch (8., April 30). Others will simply
feel God-awful tired with such tendentious
rot as calling commerce with China
“Trading with the Enemy!”
1 . Australia is not at war.
2. No blockade of China by land or
sea has been instituted by any power.
3. Without a physical blockade Aus-
tralian produce is not denied to China
by merely refusing sale. It has to
be sold somewhere unless dumped
in the sea. Refusing to deal direct
with China would only introduce
interesting middle-man possibilities
on the international wheat market.
4. Unless we dye the wheat blue or
purple (not red!) tracking anony-
mous grains of wheat around the
world offers some difficulty.
DAVID M. ABBOTT
Darkan (W.A.).
Miss Amory’s TV Set
Sir,
As one who reads the advertisements in
THE BULLETIN with almost as much
interest as the articles, I am intrigued
by the Channel 9 advertisement on page 76
of THE BULLETIN for May 14.
Perhaps a member of your staff could
research or someone at Channel 9
might explain the psychological import
of the picture of Miss Amory’s television
set, which happens to be tuned to Channel
7?
A. BADGERY-PARKER
Mt. Lawley (W.A.).
Rent Justice
Sir,
If L. F. Forders (8., May 21) got great
pleasure from reading the article by Mr.
Clyne on Rent Control (8., May 8), his
pleasure would be as nothing compared
to the pleasure of many citizens of N.S.W.
when he packs his bags and goes to another
State.
If he is ashamed of being a citizen of
this State (and I assume the last part
of his letter alludes to himself) it will not
worry people who cannot afford high rents
for inferior dwelling places if he takes “the
CONTENTS
Malaysia’s Other Confrontation . . 35
Meeting Pierre Salinger 19
The Vanishing Australian 23
One More Week 26
Batman 33
Arts and Entertainment .... . . 50
Books 52
Business & Finance 58
Wildcat 64
Man on the Land 75
Speculator’s Diary 80


More about Air Marketing
r,
v
*«r
SI
m
' mmm
J
§lili
■
■mmm
. ■
* #r
.#■ *
***■*< 1. 4“ «•*
Your cargo’s a big responsibility.
That’s why we handle it ourselves
’round the world.
When you ship on some airlines, you can’t be
sure who’s really handling your cargo once it’s
out of your sight. It just disappears into a
pool . . . where another airline one you didn’t
ask for becomes involved.
Pan Am takes care of its own. In virtually all
the major markets we serve, 91 of them to be
specific, we won’t let anyone else touch your
cargo. We’re particular that way. We’re respon-
World’s largest air cargo carrier
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC
SYDNEY: KINGSFORD-SMITH AIRPORT. 67 1384 •
sible that way. We prefer it. We know shippers
do, too.
Our cargo personnel are the best in the business.
And their business is to move your shipments
quickly, safely. Recently reduced Pan Am
insurance rates, world-wide, prove they do.
Better than ever. Get all the benefits of the
world’s most experienced airline. World-wide. Call
your Pan Am Cargo Agent. Or call us.
World’s most experienced airline
FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST ’ROUND THE WORLD
MELBOURNE: SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL. 63 9077
PASII


m
m
m
m
||4
m
m.
m
7J
I V
Like a "hole-in-one" investment? Then keep your eye on
the ball, relax your money, and drive straight to St.
George & Cronulla Permanent Co-operative Building
Society Limited. No other investment can par this NET
return, 6% P.A. (current rate) paid each half year.
NO FIXED TERM means your money is readily available
with "NO PENALTY". There are no deductions. Never
will your play be so "safe."
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
J. 8. Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Phone 28 2801
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to .. .
NAAAE.
ADDRESS.
RBA 839 C
enormous loss of death duties, stamp duties,
etc., or the spending power of a wealthy
citizen, and particularly the many large
charitable bequests elsewhere” as he
threatens.
When the people who voted our Liberal
Government into power get their heads
out of the clouds, they should remember
that in Mr. Askin’s policy speech he said:
“To avoid upheaval and dislocation, we
cannot allow any general increase in con-
trolled rents.”
What faith have these voters in their
leader if they now want him to break
his word? Did they vote for a govern-
ment whose leader they expected to be-
come a person of low principles just be-
cause they gave him power?
Try another State,
Mr. L. F. Forders.
(MRS.) E. L. JONES
Potts Point (N.S.W.).
What Price Leather?
Sir,
Has your finance writer a chip on his
shoulder about the price of hides? (8.,
April 30.) If not, why does he not
gives us more about the true reason for
the price of leather? I just weighed
my pair of shoes, which cost $l2. Two
pound 20z., I checked the market report
of hide prices. Highest price for hides
20.8 c per lb.; for yearlings 40.2 c per lb.,
so would he please give us the cost of
hide used in shoes and the amount a
20% rise in hide costs would add to the
cost of a pair of shoes?
EDWIN TEGGE
Caringbah (N.S.W.).
Boomerang Township
Sir,
In “Face of the Week” (8., May 14) it
was reported that a football referee was
threatened by a gentleman with a boom-
erang. This incident occurred at Wood-
burn, N.S.W., and not at Grafton as
stated. Having lived in the area for many
years it pains me greatly that this charm-
ing little township should be robbed of
the publicity value of such an incident.
Unknown, ignored, and forgotten, Wood-
burn struggles to be recognised. Please
print a correction, and put it on the
map.
ROBERT A. SHEARMAN
Gwynneville (N.S.W.).
Slanted News
Sir,
Writing of slanted news, as A. Abolins
does in Letters (8., May 14), he tries to
make his point by misquoting me. What
I wrote, of a Radical Right group’s action
in trying to break up a Sydney meeting
at which Dr. Cairns spoke, was “Either
Penlington or people he interviewed
labelled them . . .”
Mr. Abolins’ version of this is “he
states that people Penlington interviewed
labelled them ... In fact the people inter-
viewed were referring solely to a particu-
lar racist magazine, but their remarks
were deliberately cut in two parts.” Pen-
lington’s own remarks certainly were not
cut in two parts, and by omitting the
“either” and “or,” and suggesting that
the quotes were cross - edited out of
context, Mr. Abolins does a nice bit of
slanting himself. Why?
FRANK ROBERTS
Darlinghurst (N.S.W.).
Sunday’s Sly Bakers
Sir,
Batman’s excellent article, “The Battle
of The Sly Bakers” (8., May 14), I felt
underemphasised the underlying success
of Sunday baking supply and demand.
For this concept is the prerequisite for
success or failure of marketing in our
free-enterprise society. It is an irrevocable
fact that neither can exist without the
other. Bread is a special commodity in
that demand (the consumer) has an ad-
vantage over supply (the producer)
because it remains fresh under normal
conditions only 24 hours. Hence, supply
and demand are adjusted on a daily basis.
I know of no other commodity for which
the market adjustment period is so short.
So, if there is no demand for fresh bread
on Sundays then there is only one loser
the sly baker.
The “sweating” labor and fly bread
arguments put forward by the Trades Hall
Council have little bearing on the case.
I have yet to meet the man who volun-
tarily labored for the same wage at week-
ends as on weekdays, and I haven’t really
had a good technicolor yawn since viewing
one of our modern, hygienic, mechanised
bakeries some years ago. As for the extra
cent and lighter loaf; I gladly sacrifice
these to obtain my daily fresh bread again
on the Sabbath.
P. J. YOUNG
St. Kilda (Vic.).


It weighs half an ounce and it’s only the
size of a golf ball but it’s the cause of a
TYPEWRITER REVOLUTION!
This is a new way to type. A typewriter
without type bars, without a moving car-
riage. Brilliantly replaced by an ingeni-
ous little printing element: a typeball
that dances across the paper, typing
each character with incredible speed. As
you watch it in action, you’ll notice how
it hugs the paper, never more than a
fraction of an inch away. Naturally it
types much faster than conventional
type bars which must travel several
inches to reach paper.
The new IBM 72 Electric not only has
a higher speed limit. Its ability to
“remember”* gives it a built-in rhythm
which actually helps secretaries im-
&
A
l n: kn is
*?; L i
f r J
4 > >
prove their typing speed.
Want to change type styles? Just
remove one typeball, click another into
place. (It’s a two-finger operation.) Total
time: 5 seconds.
The IBM 72 Electric is an amazing
typewriter. You need to see it in action.
Call IBM today.
* It remembers. When two keys
are pressed almost simultaneously, the
amazing 72’s stroke storage system
holds one character while it prints the
other.
The world's fastest
typewriter and
the easiest to use.
IBM AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
m
Ai
x>v>
■
MBaHMM"*
18M.54.108.855c


THE SCENIC DOME
ROUTE TO EUROPE!
« Sr*
K
> f
/
/1
6.
i *
RAIL AWAY THROUGH CANADA’S
MIGHTY ROCKIES-SEE BANFF, TOO!
On your way to Europe, take the Scenic Dome route through
Canada’s Rockies aboard the “Canadian.” Stop-over in
Banff, take a side trip to Lake Louise! See ail the wonder
of the Rockies through the tinted scenic dome! Enjoy the
“Canadian’s” unique cuisine, unsurpassed comfort! Your
travel agent has full details!
Canadian Gkcific
(Incorporated in Canada. Liability of members is limited. ) Trains/Planes/Trucks/
Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World's most complete transportation system.
fins
Dentistry's " Underlings "
Sir,
Joseph Firth’s letter (B. May 14)
attempts to depict the dental technician
as a back-room underling dependent upon
“instruction” from his “superiors,” but
does nothing to solve the chronic prob-
lems into which the dental profession has
drifted during the past 20 years. Dentistry
as a profession is largely concerned with
the supply of various types of prosthesis,
i.e., crowns, bridges, orthodontic appliances,
protective guards, splints, gold inlays,
dentures, etc., all of which require a high
level of skill by both dentist and tech-
nician, and a more harmonious relation-
ship between both branches of the pro-
fession would do much to improve the
standard of the work provided.
As one practising prosthetic dentistry
for nearly 30 years, having entered the
profession via a long apprenticeship, with
hospital training and some surgery ex-
perience, may I suggest that the dental
profession recognise that the technician is
in dentistry to stay, and any attempt to
begrudge him his position as a skilled
craftsman in his own right will fail. Far
more sensibly, discuss together the prob-
lems as partners in a most absorbing pro-
fession and devote the knowledge thus
gained for the benefit of all concerned in
the rendering of a higher standard of
dentistry.
B. J. WINTER.
Strathfield (N.S.W.).
Dropping the Ord Scheme
Sir,
Not having met Dr. B. Davidson or
Dr. R. Patterson, and never having visited
the Ord River region, I am obviously
unqualified to comment directly on the
possibilities of the area for the actual
growing of cotton. But having been a
practising farmer for a long while and
an irrigation farmer endeavoring to
master the art of surface distribution
of water on relatively flat lands for some
years, I am beginning to think that Dr.
Davidson must be correct in his con-
clusions. (B. May 7.)
He and Dr. Patterson hold diametric-
ally opposite views on the development
of the Ord River lands. Surely it is
patently obvious to experienced men of
the land that without substantial and
continuing subsidies on exports of cotton
grown in the Ord region, the farmers
producing this fibre there would be heavy
losers in due course. High cost crops
like cotton are the cause of great financial
stress should adequate yields perchance
fail to materialise: and if a complete
crop failure is experienced then disaster
sets in what then?
Dr. Patterson, the proponent of the
scheme for the building of a new and
large dam on the Ord River, in a
recent investigation gave some figures
for another crop, grain sorghum, which he
thought could be a means of increasing
farm income in the region. The figures
he gave were obviously based on in-
correct premises; he gave experimental
yields of 80001 b. per acre of grain and
deduced that 67201 b. per acre would be
a reasonable amount to expect. This
figure of 67201 b. per acre was considered
by Dr. Davidson to be unrealistic and
he, in turn, adopted the figure of 53331 b.
per acre. My guess about an expected
average yield per acre of grain sorghum
in that area would be in the vicinity of
30001 b. per acre and this could not be
regarded as anything but very generous
things happen to growing crops and
grain sorghum is one which takes a great
deal of understanding.
The highest official yield of sorghum
grain ever obtained in Australia under
very heavy fertilisation and irrigation, in
the very best producing area the Darl-
ing Downs is 86241 b. per acre; the
area was small and very special atten-
tion was paid to the care of this par-
ticular crop. No one is likely to argue
that the Darling Downs is inferior to
the Ord region for grain sorghum culture,
Agricultural development is a special
penchant of mine, and without wishing to
be considered either impertinent or
regressive it would appear to me that
there are so many unfinished and widely-


Dear Channel 9:
It’s time you knew
Anthony Squires
In your recent touching open letter to Anthony Squires, you spoke of your concern
that not enough of the half-million men in Sydney and Melbourne were wearing our
Suits.
On this point of your letter, we agree. It will be an admirable thing for Australia’s
status as a well-dressed nation when all men wear Anthony Squires Suits. This may
take a little longer than the 18 years we have been in Australia!
But for the record, you should know that more men in Sydney and Melbourne, and
in fact, in all Australia, choose our label than choose any other brand.
Indeed, the extraordinary demand has made Anthony Squires Suit Sales the largest
in the world on a per capita basis. The fact that we operate in the top qualities only
makes this a performance without precedent.
As the result of Anthony Squires receiving two coveted World Awards by Caswell-
Massey (“For Excellence of Design and Craftsmanship”), our suits are now worn by
discerning men in many parts of the world, contributing significantly to the reputation
of Australia as a trader in quality fashion merchandise.
So thank you for bringing Mr. Pascoe to our notice. We already have him in mind.
Him, and those other thousands you at Channel 9 are so anxious to see clothed
appropriately to their position in this community.
Our difficulty is to make enough Suits for men already wanting them.
When this is under control, we almost certainly will be interested in Channel 9.
Jfkibei


***£ WlHt
ONE OF A SERIES
&
v«
Oak from the forests of Nevers in France has for centuries
played a major part in establishing the reputation of
famous French dry reds. This same oak is imported by
Yalumba to make 100 gallon puncheons to mature the
prize-wmning Galway Vintage Claret and Yalumba
Burgundy. After two years quiet maturity in these oak
casks the wine is bottled and laid down in huge bins in deep,
cool cellars to reach their peak of bouquet and flavour.
YALUMBA CELLARMASTER SUGGESTS
left's
BA
CLARET
YALUMBA GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
This renowned red table wine is
blended from two varieties of grapes
Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz
(hermitage). Cabernet Sauvignon, a
light cropping variety, gives a wine a
full bouquet and a soft tannin, while
the wine from Shiraz grapes imparts a
soft, round, full flavour. All grapes
used are grown in the Barossa and
McLaren Vale districts, where climate,
rainfall and soil quality are ideal.
Labelled with the vintage year.
YALUMBA CARTE d’OR
RIESLING
A vintage wine made solely from
Rhine Riesling Grapes grown in
Angaston, Eden Valley and Springing-
ton areas, picked and fermented in the
year shown on the label. Yalumba
Carte d’Or is bottled while young,
mainly in August/September of the
vintage year, and then carefully aged
in the bottle.
, ...
ju—
filumhci
TABLE WINES
Famous since 1849
Vlntaged by S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, S.A.
868 SS
talked-about projects calling for urgent
attention in more populous and drought-
affected areas in N.S.W. and Queensland
that these should be given top priority
and the Ord Scheme postponed. After
all, there are 30,000 acres of land which
can be irrigated properly from the present
Ord River Dam it services the largest
“Experimental Farm” in Australia so
why enlarge it until the area is fully
utilised and the crops production proven.
I am one who believes that Dr. David-
son’s warnings should be heeded.
JOHN E. GLIGH,
Ancherfield Research Station.
Darling Downs (Qld.).
Dear Anthony Squires
Sir,
We are deeply concerned by the con-
dition of your unfortunate Mr. Allan Pas-
coe, drawn to our attention by THE
BULLETIN of May 7, page 76.
The sorry lack of an Anthony Squires
suit in his wardrobe we can remedy, say
toward the middle of 1967, when our
present orders are completed. If, how-
ever, Mr. Pascoe is the man of taste, dis-
cernment, and income implied, he will
only be content with a suit from our new
“PARINI” collection. This we may be
in a position to supply by the end of
1967.
Our concern, therefore, does not lie
in the utter poverty of Mr. Pascoe’s
wardrobe, since time can resolve this.
Our real concern is what must be the
similar state of Mr. Pascoe’s mind when
fed solely upon a diet of Channel 9s.
ERIC BARLOW.
Marketing Manager,
Anthony Squires Pty. Ltd.
St. Marys (N.S.W.).
Penkovsky and the CIA
Sir,
May I answer Mr. Carroll’s criticisms
of my Penkovsky Papers review? (B. May
14). The main object of my review was
to highlight what I regard as the most
important features of the Papers: Penkov-
sky’s account of the ethos and atmosphere
associated with Soviet rulers and his
account of the activities of the Soviet
Secret Police in post-Stalin Russia. Both
accounts have the ring of truth; they
have not been really challenged by Zorza
and they are borne out from other sources.
I explicitly questioned, like Zorza, the
reliability of Penkovsky’s assertions con-
cerning the person of Khrushchev. As a
matter of fact, unlike Zorza, I even tried
to speculate a little about the possible
causes of Penkovsky’s anti-Khrushchev
bias. Zorza does not say in his article
that the papers are “in large part the
product of the Central Intelligence
Agency.” He doubts, like some others
(including, frankly, myself), the official
story about the way the Penkovsky Papers
found their way into Mr. Dediabin’s
hands. He suggests that CIA editors
may have modified Penkovsky’s testimony
and he throws some doubt on the
accuracy, authenticity and veracity of
some of Penkovsky’s statements.
Yet, Zorza does not suggest that the


He has an electronic calculator
with a visible memory.
See the TV screen?
That's where all his entries and
answers appear. They’re on a
restful, blue-green field. Four reg-
isters can be seen.
A fifth, unseen register can be
used for storing constant factors.
In fact, figures in all registers
are in memory. He can recall any
of them back to the working reg-
ister for further calculation. This
saves him an amazing amount of
time. And also eliminates any
chance of making an incorrect
re-entry.
He can work complex prob-
lems and never take his fingers
off the keyboard, except to write
the final answer.
This is the incomparably fast,
new 130 Electronic Calculator by
Friden.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
The 130 Electronic Calculator by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
254 ALBERT STREET, EAST MELBOURNE. 41 1133
Branches:
SYDNEY 92 5807 ADELAIDE 23 5998
CANBERRA 4 6162 PERTH 23 3224
BRISBANE 51 1571 HOBART 34 2673
435 A
Papers must be dismissed in toto as a
fraud perpetrated by the CIA. As for
the methods of delivery of the Penkovsky
testimony whether by registered air-
mail, via a tape-recorder supplied in
London by Anglo-American Intelligence,
or in the hollow handle of an archbishop’s
toothbrush it is a question of no
significance except for James Bond fans,
of which I am not one. Zorza’s specu-
lations (and they are no more) that some
of the stuff may have been edited into the
Papers by others may be valid. Crank-
shaw, another eminent sovietologist, and
one with a somewhat “softer” line on
Soviet communism than Zorza, accepts
the Papers as they stand as unquestionably
authentic.
All I can say is that most of the
stuff which really matters has the ring of
truth. It is, of course, possible that the
Papers may have been wholly or partly
forged or that Penkovsky may have been
telling lies. Yet in the light of available
historical evidence about the veracity of
major Soviet defectors in the past, and
indirect evidence about the plausibility
of Penkovsky’s major assertions, acceptance
of Penkovsky’s testimony as substantially
genuine seems to me to be the more
adequate hypothesis though by no
means the only rational one.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
East Melbourne (Vic.).
TAMPERING WITH JURIES
ffifyulLetCn
86 Years Ago: May 22, 1880
r JpHERE is a rumor abroad to the
effect that several members of the
jury, which tried a remanet from last
sittings of the Criminal Court. at
Darlinghurst (the prisoner, who is
charged with rape, having been re-
manded on a previous occasion by reason
of the disagreement of the first jury)
were “interviewed” by an interested
party. It is further stated that the
prisoner in question, who has at length
been discharged on his own recognisances,
has realised on his property and is about
to leave the colony. As neither jury has
thought fit to pronounce an opinion on
the case, we do not feel called upon to
comment on the testimony submitted.
We presume that the prisoner, in the
absence of direct evidence to the con-
trary, should not be chargeable with the
fact that, after being tried twice, he has
neither been convicted nor acquitted. To
try the man again would be un-British
and would savor of persecution. We
would be very sorry to assert that any
members of the jury were tampered
with; but we feel it our duty to call
attention to the rumor abovementioned
in order that the Crown may in future
keep secret the names of jurors until
their names are heard in Court.
TT was reported the other day that
Ned Kelly’s henchman, Byrnes, was
at work on the Narrandera line. Two
troopers went for him and the fast-
fading £2OOO, but were disappointed.
The man, though like Byrnes, was not
identical with that individual.


i
MMmi
%
'
111 l
3*
.... :
’
Fighter Aircraft, 1966
In the forefront of the pest control
and extermination service of
W. A. Flick & Co. is the mighty
Cessna 172.
Part of Flick’s vast sales territory is
the remote north west of Western
Australia. Their clients station
homesteads, government buildings,
mining companies are scattered
over hundreds of thousands of square
miles.
W. A. Flick & Co. realised that the
only way they could give the right
kind of service to these clients was
by aircraft.
Naturally, they chose Cessna.
Today, one man operating a Cessna
172, can cover in days an area that
would take weeks by car. And
do it far more economically too. (For
instance they get about 22 miles to
the gallon with their Cessna.
Air miles, that is; no corners!)
The result. . . their clients get better,
faster, more frequent service . . .
W. A. Flick & Co. get more business
and enhanced reputation for service.
W. A. Flick & Co. is just one of
the many progressive Australian
companies that have proved
conclusively that operating a Cessna
is sound economic common-sense.
PERHAPS YOU NEED CESSNA
IN YOUR BUSINESS?
It costs you nothing to find out.
Your nearest Cessna dealer will
gladly prepare an evaluation for you.
MR
in Hi mmm
< .
IS
These are your Cessna dealers:
G. W. CAMPBELL AIRCRAFT SALES PTY. LTD., Cessnock and Mudgee • MASLING AVIATION PTY. LIMITED, Coota-
mundra, Bourke, Wagga and Coonamble • REX AVIATION SALES (N.S.W.) PTY. LIMITED, Bankstown • BARRIER AIR
TAXI SERVICE PTY. LIMITED, Broken Hill • SCHUTT AIRCRAFT PTY. LIMITED, Melbourne • SCHUTT AIRCRAFT
(GEELONG) PTY. LIMITED, Grovedale • REX AVIATION (QLD.) PTY. LIMITED, Brisbane and Charleville • GOSS AIR
TAXIS PTY. LIMITED, Cunnamulla • SIMPSON AVIATION PTY. LIMITED, Perth . ROSS AVIATION FACILITIES, Adelaide
• AIR OASIS PTY. LIMITED, Darwin • TASMANIAN AIRCRAFT SALES & SERVICE PTY. LTD., Devonport t SOUTH-
BANK PTY. LIMITED, Wollongong • PENTECOST AVIATION, Noumea.
RB5


Tanner
"I'm exercising my democratic
right of protest. Surrender or
111 blow you to pieces/ 7


Face of the Week
N.S.W. paid Mr. Utzon $150,000 for
drawings “of no great significance” and
Sir Malcolm Sargent said the Opeia
House is “wonderful but extravagant.”
Independent Senator Turnbull said
Australia should pull out of Vietnam.
Mr. McMahon said open secret Barrow
Island oil field is twice as big as
Moonie. N.S.W. given $1 million for
a Riverina Uni. College, Brisbane
promised $300,000 to resume land for
second Uni. Amoco to sponsor Davis
Cup challenge. Australian College of
Physicians told of new drug for gout.
It was Honey Week and Equal Pay
Week.
★
New Guinea police and soldiers were
granted new pay rates, cash instead
of cash and rations. Canberra nurses
were given a pace-setting award ex-
pected to bring rises in most States.
Queensland’s basic wage rose to $32.70.
Another Japanese delegation began
trade and tariff talks in Canberra.
Nissan Co. said they would assemble 40
percent Australian content Datsun
vehicles in Australia. In Tokyo, Wheat
Board chairman asked for greater share
of Japanese market, suggested 600,000
tons. Latest statistics showed Red China
bought 44 percent of wheat exports.
★
Federal Treasurer McMahon visited
W.A., emphasised extent of Federal
assistance to West, heard rebuttal that
W.A.’s exports would maintain growth
rate in eastern States, flew to Queens-
land to join in election campaign.
Queensland Employers criticised absence
of positive immigration policies in party
platforms, said State had only 889
immigrants last year. Stage Two of
W.A.’s Ord River Scheme was shelved
by Commonwealth. Sir John Crawford,
Senator Wood, and Dr. Mackay, MHR,
suggested ways to combat Government
by executive. Defence Minister Fair-
hall opened computer conference in
Canberra, said computers would reduce
labor wasted on clerical work. Minister
Bury said public had unwarranted
regard for book learning, should modify
attitude to technical training. Aus-
tralian Teachers’ Federation executive
released a Blueprint for Secondary
Education, suggested more combined
schools, fewer technical schools.
★
An American businessman in the
Philippines has given a pint of the
rare cdE-cdE blood to help a seriously
ill Sydney man. Mr. Justice Brereton
said that John Oakland Ansell, the
child-murderer, had an IQ higher than
his, and MENSA said he will be the
second prison inmate with MENSA
qualifications.
★
Editorial Office: Park House. 54-58 Park
Street. Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666, Ext. 2504.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4499
May 28, 1966
Suicide along the Causeway
THERE is a bitter irony in the
announcement last week that,
whatever happens to the Indonesian
Confrontation of Malaysia, Australian
troops will remain in Malaysia. For
as Communism recedes in Indonesia,
the growing conflict between Singa-
pore and Malaysia is presenting the
Communists with unexpected oppor-
tunities to begin another “Emer-
gency” in which, conceivably, Austra-
lian troops could be involved.
As Harvey Stockwin’s special
report on Malaysia and Singapore on
pages 35-43 makes clear, each country
has not only erected barriers
against the other’s goods and popu-
lation and killed joint economic and
defence planning, but has intensified
its propaganda war against the other
to such an extent that even the distant
possibility of open war has not been
ruled out.
The dangers in this new Confronta-
tion are horribly similar to those in
the “old” Indonesian Confrontation.
It undermines economic progress,
weakens South-East Asian democracy,
and gives the Peking-controlled Com-
munist Party new opportunities: The
Malaysian Liberation Front has al-
ready been launched, and in Singa-
pore Communists can at any time
win 30 percent of the votes.
The situation has in fact more
tragic possibilities than the Indo-
nesian Confrontation: both were
and are unnecessary, but the Indo-
nesian one was always phony,
readily terminated and, despite
Djakarta’s Rent-A-Mob demon-
strations, unpopular in Indonesia,
whereas the Causeway Confrontation
seems to be developing its own
popular momentum.
The sources of this fratricide
baffle foreigners. Kuala Lumpur
appears to suffer from a sort of Jin-
nah complex: just as India’s Con-
gress Party attributed all its prob-
lems to the influence of Jinnah and
claimed that if only he disappeared
all would be well, so the Tunku’s
Alliance sees Lee Kuan-yew as the
fountain-head of all evil. Without
him, they say, there would be no
problems ignoring the fact that
whoever leads the commercially
enterprising, politically vital, and
economically vulnerable people of
Singapore will have to operate in
much the same way (if he is not to
give up his anti-Communism, look
to Peking for support, and turn the
island into a second Cuba). Singa-
pore in turn suffers from a sort of
Feudalist Complex, attributing all
troubles to the “mad mullahs,” the
imperialist dreamers, and the reac-
tionary masses of Malaya ignor-'
ing the fact that whoever rules
Malaysia must manage a far greater
problem of multi-racialism than
Singapore knows of and build up a
backward Malay race which, unlike
the “rootless” Chinese of Singapore,
remains as attached to its traditions as
are, for example, Australians, and
which fears Chinese domination.
Australia’s interests in this disas-
trous squabble are as great as its
power to influence seems small. Yet
it sympathises with the parties on
both sides of the Causeway and
must use whatever influence it can
muster to try, in the words of one
Malaysian politician quoted by
Harvey Stockwin, to bring both
governments down from their
“Olympian heights of stupidity.”
Australians have fought in one
Malayan Emergency; they do not
want to see another any more
than do our friends in Singapore
and Kuala Lumpur.


What’s
red
with the
gear?
To start with, it’s on the girl, not the car. Avis
cars don’t have red gears (most of them are
automatics, anyway) but the Avis girl wears a red
uniform; that’s so you can easily pick her out at
airports or railway stations or wherever you
asked us to have your Avis car waiting. Frankly,
this red gear costs us a lot of money, but we
take pride in the way our girls look
just as we’re proud of the way our cars
perform. For example, wipers that wipe,
blinkers that blink, starters that start. And a
proper insurance policy that means what
it says protects you, not us. Next time
you need a car, look for the girl in the red gear.
You’ll find her at capital city and
country airports, every major rail terminal.
If that doesn’t suit you, give us a ring.
We’ll send your car along.
X
M
<
L
mow
ms
AVIS
RENTA CAR


THE BOONAROO
“Leaving Australians for Dead”
BACK in 1952, Communist Secretary of the Australian Seamen’s Union, Mr. E. V.
Elliott, stood in East Berlin in front of a select Communist audience at a meeting of
the World Federation of Trade Unions (banned by the Australian Council of
Trade Union as “bogus and pro-Communist”) and boasted: “No Australian ship has
taken troops or supplies from Australia to Korea.”
For Elliott that must have been a very
satisfying moment. To him, apparently
the boast did not mean what it would
have meant to the average Australian—
that men sent overseas by a democratically
elected Government to fight under United
Nations auspices in a cause backed by
the Australian Labor Party were being-
denied supplies by fellow citizens. It was
an opportunity to create in the minds of
the representatives of the elite of the
Communist world—those controlling Com-
munist States —the illusions (flattering to
Elliott) that his Communist Party had
sufficient mass following to be able to
flout Government with impunity on such
a vital issue as the provisions of supplies
to national forces engaged in military
operations.
Now Elliott is pulling the same stunt
starting with the Boonaroo, the Australian
National Line freighter chartered by the
Commonwealth to take non-military sup-
plies to Australian servicemen in Vietnam
and due to sail Thursday of this week
for Vietnam.
The Seamen’s Union executive on
which Elliott, a member of the Com-
munist Party Central Committee, is the
most significant figure came out on
May 14 with a public declaration that
it would not man the ship and pro-
duced the situation that when a call was
made for crew members last week no
member of the Seamen’s Union stepped
forward to offer his services.
Whatever the final outcome of the
struggle and it will not end with the
Boonaroo and even if it has done
nothing else the incident reveals the moral
and intellectual bankruptcy of Labor’s
Right wing. Support for Australian forces
while they are in Vietnam is Labor policy.
Mr. W. McDonald, Secretary of the
Stewards and Pantrymen’s Union, read a
declaration by the opposition Leader, Mr.
Calwell, to the meeting of the seven
maritime unions discussing the issue: “We
are not in favor of any interference by-
boycott or otherwise with supplies needed
by the men in Vietnam.”
Within the framework of that state-
ment, it could be expected that Right-
wing ALP leaders would come out in
public condemnation of the seamen’s boy-
cott on the Boonaroo. Apart from the
timid slap on the wrist of the Seamen’s
Union by Mr. Calwell when he was
asked the direct question “Do you believe
Australian seamen should be forced to
take the Boonaroo to Vietnam?” at
last Wednesday night’s Sydney meeting,
who has heard or read any criticism by any
ALP leader of the Seamen’s Union,
despite such action being completely con-
trary to Labor policy? I have not. And
part of my job is to try to keep track
on statements of such a nature.
The Right wing of the Labor Party left
it to the ACTU to show the only strength
manifested so far on the Labor and non-
Communist side of politics. The ACTU,
with the senior vice-president, Mr. J.
Kenny, acting as spokesman, backed the
six unions that were prepared to man the
Boonaroo.
Incredible as it may seem to those not
aware how the Seamen’s Union is oper-
ated, it is not beyond the bounds of possi-
bility that Elliott will end ultimately
appearing to get rank-and-file support
within the union for the stand he and the
Seamen’s Union have taken. At the time of
the Korean war when Elliott was trying to
prevent supplies going to Australians fight-
ing there under United Nations auspices,
there was still a strong anti-Elliott and
anti-Communist element within the Sea-
men’s Union. This element has since
been largely eliminated, driven out of the
industry, or broken in spirit. But even
when it existed, Elliott still got his way.
Ironically, the Seamen’s Union is cam-
paigning for the establishment of an Aus-
Elliott V. Elliott - Back to 1952.
tralian Government-owned overseas ship-
ping line. This is a proposition with which
many Australians undoubtedly agree
until they look at the activities of the
Seamen’s Union, the body that would
decide whether or not and where that
Line would sail.
AYhat would be the value of an Aus-
tralian shipping line if in an emergency,
when you wanted to transport supplies
to Australian servicemen outside Aus-
tralia, you had to try to find foreign
ships to do such carrying or, in W. Mc-
Donald’s words, leave “fellow Australians
for dead.”
ALAN REID.
THE ORD
Northern Development Pensioners?
JUST four weeks ago Dr. Bruce Davidson, the agricultural economist, addressed
the Canberra Economics Society. He was in great form on one of his favorite
topics: Northern Development, and the Ord Scheme in particular. He gave
newspapermen present a good lead-in with the provocative statement that Ord Rfver
farmers were the highest-paid pensioners in Australia.
Each of the 25 was costing the taxpayer
between $16,000 and $20,000 in subsidies
a year. It would have been far cheaper
to the nation had the Government retired
the 25 and their families up there, paid
them a good pension and saved the
money on the first dam. He backed this
up with the argument that the cotton
yields he had predicted in criticising the
scheme in the planning stage were prov-
ing just about right and, if anything,
the scheme was doing slightly worse than
he had expected.
The meeting was attended by economists
from several Government departments and
none rose to challenge Dr. Davidson or
defend the proposal to go ahead with the
costly s7om expansion of the scheme.
The talk is that studies by the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the
Treasury came to much the same damag-
ing conclusions as those of Dr. Davidson.
So it was hardly surprising that Cabinet
should decide on deferment. The Prime
Minister certainly did not slam the door
on the Western Australians. His Press state-
ment was diplomatic, but clear: “It
would not be in the general interest to
establish a community depending on a
single crop which faces falling world
market prices, and either has to rely
indefinitely on subsidised production or
prove unprofitable if the subsidy is with-
drawn.” He w'ent on to say that the
Government was aware of the principal
advantages of proceeding. But what did
these add up to? “Merely the creation of
an attractive township at Kununurra.”
But even if cost reductions can be
achieved it is most unlikely that the Ord
will be able to compete with the N.S.W.
Namoi area as a cotton producer. And
on present growthrates the Namoi will
within five years be growing all the cotton
Australia needs. If we were forced to
dispose of a surplus on world markets
not only would we do so at great loss to
ourselves but at the expense of the
export earnings of underdeveloped coun-
tries like India and Egypt. If there is
something especially important in northern
development, then there is no lack of
sound-paying propositions: In the beef
industry and minerals principally. But
for Western Australia the best prospects
are in the climatically favored southwest
corner, even if they are less romantic.
PETER SAMUEL.


What’s the difference between
a motel, a hotel, and the new
Melbourne Sheraton Motor
Hotel?
Take the best of both the free
undercover parking, glorious views,
quiet unobtrusive privacy of the
best motels. The 24 hour service,
airconditioned comfort, beautiful
furnishing, restaurant, conference
accommodation, valet, porter, medi-
cal, pharmaceutical and booking
services of the best hotels. Add the
highest international standards of
hotel service, located just a few
minutes walk from the heart of the
city, and then keep the rates in
between and you have the new
Sheraton, Melbourne’s newest place
to stay.
Book now with your local travel agent,
bank, airline or stock and station agent. Or
phone direct for immediate confirmed
reservations for either hotel. (Write for
fully illustrated colour brochure).
Rates: from $8.50 single, $11.50 double
SHERATON
MOTOR. HOTELS
40 Macleay Street, Potts Point
Sydney, ’phone 35.1955
13-19 Spring Street,
Melbourne.
’phone 63.9961
SHS6/6.58
ST. ANDREW'S PREPARATORY SCHOOL
(Church of England)
Walkerville, South Australia
invites applications for
the position of
HEADMASTER
(The present Headmaster is returning to
England for personal family reasons.)
QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants should have
sound Teaching, Educational and Admini-
strative ability at Primary School level.
SALARY: To be commensurate with ability
and qualification.
COMMENCING DATE: Ist September, 1966.
Applications should be in writing, stating
necessary experience, qualifications and
relevant details to:
Mr. L. Clift,
Secretary School Council,
68 Church Terrace,
Walkerville, South Australia.
St. Andrew's Preparatory School is conducted
in accordance with the principles of the
Church of England and is a day school for
kindergarten and primary education for 280
pupils, girls and boys.
Tahiti’s Big Bang
Mururoa Atoll - Site of the French nuclear test.
RECENTLY in Tahiti some French officers and officials talked to me privately
about their doubts on certain features of President de Gaulle’s past and present
policies. But even the most outspoken critics strongly supported the decision to
hold nuclear tests within the next few weeks at Mururoa Atoll in the South Pacific.
I may run the risk of sounding naive,
but while I found it natural that soldiers
and officials should back the tests for
military and for political reasons, the
attitude of the scientists to whom I talked
somewhat surprised me. Invariably they
stressed the scientific importance of those
future explosions. I was reminded time
and again that “nuclear physics like every
other science must be based on experi-
mentation. If we abdicated from our right
to hold tests we would be soon outpaced
by others and we could never catch up
with the other members of the nuclear
club.” My layman’s argument that in-
formation on nuclear physics and tech-
nology was freely available anyway drew
only condescending smiles. “This is a
popular fallacy,” I was told. “The Ameri-
cans Britons, Chinese, and all the others
who’ work in this field have their very
private secrets which they tell no one.”
The French have given the euphemistic
name of Centre d’Experimentation du
Pacifique (CEP) to their military nuclear
establishment in French Polynesia a
sprawling area of 1,500,000 square miles
of which, however, only 2500 square miles
are land unequally divided between some
130 small islands. At the beginning of
Mav when I was in Tahiti, CEP had 6500
men under its control including 1500
civilian scientists and technicians (the
others were all military personnel). By
the time the tests begin about another
8000 men mostly sailors, airmen, and
soldiers will have arrived. Never before
has French Polynesia been so crowded,
Rear-Admiral Jacques Guillon, a grey-
ing, courteous naval scientist, is in charge
of this mammoth organisation. He received
me with the polite forbearance of the
expert who, on superior orders, must talk
to the uninitiated. “What am I sup-
posed to do?” he asked, rather helplessly,
CEP S public relations officer, a smart and
chic army commandant. Then after a short
explanation from him he settled down to
tell us that the explosion of the nuclear
devices (“they won’t be bombs”) would
harm no one.
As far as other journalists and I could
find out the scope of our invitation was
to reassure Australians through the 1 ress
that the French tests would hold no
danger to anyone. But except security
measures which were freely revealed
and discussed every other bit of m-
formation was strictly classified. My
persistent probing in other fields was
followed by apologetic shaking of heads,
I sought in vain a definition (I thought
an innocuous one) of a nuclear device
and a “nuclear bomb. My question
whether the explosions would be brought
about by fusion or fission or both was
unanswered. But on explosion day hun-
dreds of radio-operated weather stations
in the test area will feed information to
an electronic computer which will show
whether conditions are favorable for the
big bang. Unless the wind blows steadily


Sitmar Cruise
News!
t*
: ':izL * %
\
\
»*
-
*
3 exciting new
Sitmar Pacific Cruises in January
17
7
New Year Cruise
December 31 to January 14
Sitmar has the gayest and brightest New
Year’s Eve ever lined up for you. You’ll
see the New Year in, surrounded by
dozens of new-found friends and enjoy-
ing the best of everything...with a fort-
night of wonderful days ahead! You’ll
cruise to Christchurch with its Maori
treasures. Then to the colour and gaiety
of Suva. Then to beautiful Noumea
half Paris, half Polynesia. And you’ll
cruise in luxury all the way on Fairstar.
SYDNEY—LYTTELTON/CHRISTCHURCH—
SUVA—NOUMEA—SYDNEY...IS DAYS FROM
$230
r
i. a
“Take Five” Cruise
January 15 to 19
As you know, “Take five" means “take
five minutes off”. We say-“ Take five
days off!" Five superb days, sailing in
Fairstar luxury, having a ball. No ordinary
ciuise this! It’s one in a million! Party
nights every night, Continental orchestra
plus popular dance bands, TV stars to
entertain you—wonderful! And, relaxing
right off in those hazy lazy days-you’ll
make dozens of friends, and have five
days you’ll never forget. So book now!
SYDNEY—CRUISING AROUND THE DEEP
BLUE PACIFIC—SYDNEY...S DAYS FROM
$75
Carefree Cruise
January 20 to 31
Feel carefree for eleven sunny days and
starry nights. Sail with Sitmar across
the calm blue Pacific to French Noumea,
the Paris of the South Pacific. To Savu
Savu, where palms fringe the long white
beaches. To Suva in Fiji, with its markets
filled to overflowing with duty-free bar-
gains. And sail with all the luxury that
Sitmar Line can provide. All the fun, too.
It's bright and it’s carefree-this Sitmar
Carefree Cruise on Fairstar.
SYDNEY—NOUMEA—SAVU SAVU THEN
TO SUVA—SYDNEY...II DAYS FROM
$l5O
SEE YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT FOR FULL DETAILS OF SITMAR LINE FARES AND ACCOMMODATION
596 7


in a south-eastern direction where the
nearest inhabited spot is almost 2000 miles
away the test will be postponed.
The devices will be exploded from
barges in the lagoon of Mururoa atoll.
In this way only radio-active water par-
ticles and no coral dust will be
blown into the atmosphere. These water
particles are expected to fall into the
ocean at a maximum distance of 100 miles.
So confident are the French that noth-
ing dangerous will fall farther that they
will not evacuate the 60 permanent in-
habitants of Tureia Island and the scien-
tists and technicians stationed there. Tureia
is just beyond the expected range of fall
out.
For many months a special branch of
the French (civilian) Laboratoire de Sur-
veillance Radiologique, which has its head-
quarters in Paris, has been collecting
specimens of the flora and fauna of French
Polynesia to ascertain the natural radio-
activity of the soil, of plants, and of
animals especially of fish. Immediately
after the explosions similar specimens will
be collected to see whether radio-
activity had increased in them and in
exactly what degree.
I left Tahiti convinced that the tests
will not immediately endanger human life
or health. But this is not an apology
for the proliferation of nuclear weapons
by France or by anybody else.
EMERY BARCS
EDUCATION
Electronic School Teachers
PREACHERS at School Speech nights, educational congress, and official openings
often have bright visions of the automated school of the future. They see television,
computers, and teaching machines coping with hosts of our present problems
and shortages. Needless to say, real life moves a bit more slowly.
At Coburg High School, in Melbourne,
the Audio-Visual Aids Department of
Melbourne University is experimenting
with five sophisticated teaching machines
(at $llBO a piece) known as Auto Tutor
Mark 11. It is the first time that these
elaborate machines have been used in
Australia.
What makes a teaching machine
“sophisticated”? The main feature is
probably its ability to cope with a
“branched” program. Simple, cheap
machines usually can present only “linear”
programs: The material to be learnt is
divided into minimal, graded steps which
the student must work through methodic-
ally, even when he has the ability to skip
some steps. The Auto Tutor allows him
to skip.
The learning program is on film. A
piece of information is projected and a
series of test answers are given. If the
student selects the right answer, he moves
to the next stage. If he is wrong, the
machine takes him back over the lesson,
and on the way keeps a record of his
errors. The machine, in short, responds
to the student’s degree of mastery.
The advantages of this teaching seem
obvious. The student, more so than in
the usual large classes, is getting individual
attention. He can work at his own pace,
he is actively engaged all the time, not
sitting around waiting to be asked a
question. Of course, a machine may not
be necessary. Similar programs can be
presented, more cheaply, in text-books.
It is not yet known which programs are
better suited to machines and which to
books. If there is no difference, economy
obviously favors the book.
As programs are developed (and a
machine without a program is so much
pretty junk), it seems certain that teach-
ing machines will one day become widely
used here. The time will depend on
money and on the writing of suitable
programs. In training, where a clearly
defined set of facts and operations have
to be learnt, such as technical work in
industries and the artned services, they
are already relied on considerably in
Australia. For school purposes, pro-
grams have been most frequently pro-
duced in mathematics and the sciences.
Some programs, however, have tackled
successfully tricky subjects like literary
appreciation and interpretation.
Even so, for all the very great possibili-
ties of programming and machine instruc-
tion, automation will not replace teachers.
The researcher running the experiment at
Coburg, Mr. S. C. Driver, suggests that
machines might help students who have
missed work, coach slow ones, provide
extra work for bright ones, instruct
isolated pupils or be used together with
TV. The important fact is that in many
ways our present class instruction methods
are ineffective and for some pupils ineffec-
tive.
Programs could make the work of the
same number of teachers more efficient,
because not only can they give individual
instruction at the student’s own pace but
they can also free a teacher from some
of his routine teaching (perhaps one or
two lessons in a week) and give him more
time to provoke creative thought.
BILL HANNAN
A Marxist
Lesson
WITH the spirit of the United Front
pervading all, the Communist Party
has been happy to revise its atti-
tude to the flourishing Victorian Secon-
dary Teachers’ Association.
A couple of years back, the Party and
its captives and followers in the Victorian
Teachers’ Union were doing their best
to denigrate the VSTA. Word went out
that it was a “splinter group,” “an in-
tellectual snob society,” a Right-wing
attempt “to split the unity of teaching
unions.” But the VSTA continued to grow
and now claims the membership and
allegiance of 80 percent of Victoria’s
secondary teachers.
The major reason has been that whilst
the other sections of the Victorian Teach-
ers’ Union have been led either by
Conservatives determined not to rock the
boat or by Communists and their allies
(as in the high schools’ and technical
schools’ branches of the VTU) determined
to use their official positions for straight
political ends—for example, support for the
Peace Congress, opposition to Government
policy in Korea, Malaya, Vietnam, the
VSTA leadership has been manifestly con-
cerned with educational policies and issues.
Although it has not been altogether suc-
cessful in clearly communicating its ob-
jectives to Parliament and people, the
VSTA has been more pre-occupied with
standards than salaries, with morale rather
than short-term professional gains. In
the process it has tapped the powerful
sources of idealism and dedication amongst
secondary teachers. It has been able to
conduct successful brief strikes in protest
against the injustices of the Teachers’
Tribunal because its own members realise
that the present tribunal set-up is a major
administrative barrier to reform.
The VSTA has in the process captured
the initiative from the professional
ostriches and political operators in the
other teaching unions. The Communist
Party has learnt from this that it' was
mistaken in concentrating on purely
political targets and that educational de-
ficiencies and problems may be used as
the basis for longer-term political cam-
paigns. The pro-Communist left is now
attempting to turn teachers against the
Government electorally and to encourage
teachers to register a protest vote against
the Government solely on the educationl
issue. The attempt is also in progress to
induce student activists into anti-Govern-
ment demonstrations’, beginning with
educational and ending, of course, with
conscription and Vietnam.
Students from schools with leftist
teachers interrupted the last teachers’ pro-
test meeting by marching through with
placards and banners, most of which
were about deficiencies in the schools but
some of which were anti-Vietnam.
The recent nomination of Mr. Doug
White for the VSTA committee signals the
Communist Party’s further attempt at in-
filtration. Mr. White and Mr. Charles


Silver, President of the high schools branch
of the VTU, are the Party’s leading Vic-
torian spokesmen on education, ably
assisted by Victorian teachers’ vice-presi-
dent, Mr. George Lees.
Allied with the attempt to directly in-
fluence the VSTA is a campaign to form
a Victorian Teachers’ Federation along
similar lines to the New South Wales
Teachers’ Federation, which is heavily
Communist-influenced.
The Party realises that it has tempor-
arily lost the initiative and it has decided
that it must either gain representation on
the VSTA or bring the VSTA into a larger
body where it can be supervised.
However, wild and indiscriminate
charges of Communist influence in
teachers’ organisations, which have been
made by some Liberal MPs, will only
assist the party in penetrating its new
target, for reasons made apparent in the
old parable of the boy who cried wolf.
The other odd feature of the Liberal
Government’s handling of the education
issue is the hostility shown to the VSTA
and its reasonable demands vis-a-vis the
Government’s tolerance and approval
of those sections of the teaching pro-
fession which are under Communist in-
fluence. Cabinet fails to see that the
VSTA has so far kept out of part-political
matters, whilst other teachers’ organisa-
tions with which Cabinet is happy to do
business are intent on using the educa-
tion issue for their own political ends.
But then, Marx himself claimed it was
characteristic of the middle class that
it fails to see its real enemies in
its enthusiasm to fight with its friends.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
BUSINESS
Computer Man v. Manager
SOME say it was the biggest convention Canberra has yet seen. It was certainly one
of the slickest. Nine hundred Australian computer men, almost a half of the species,
spent last week at their third National Conference.
Before they left home they had re-
ceived a great wad of papers —86 on my
count —and these were considered in 26
sessions. Each paper was mechanically
considered in 18 minutes rigorously policed
by a determined chairman.
The formal talk was in the new Theatre
Centre which was rigged up with closed
circuit TV screens and elaborate recording
devices while the old barn-like Albert Hall
over the Lake was filled with an im-
pressive collection of gleaming machines
and their charming salesmen and women.
The theme of the Conference was des-
cribed in preliminary literature in the
sentence: “A decade of computer use—
and what now?” Not surprisingly, the
conference papers failed to provide the
comprehensive review of past experience
with computer use or a survey of future
possibilities. A certain amount of time
was taken up with papers which were ex-
tremely technical and so specialised and
abstruse as to seem irrelevant to the topic
being discussed. But mostly they were
on the ball.
There were progress reports from some
of the main users of computers: the Bureau
of Census and Statistics, the Weapons Re-
search Establishment, the Armed Services,
PMG, Qantas, ICI, and BMC. There
were discussions of the peculiar problems
of applying computers in particular uses:
in hospitals, devising school timetables,
scheduling airline operations, designing
multi-storey buildings, and in banking. Syd-
ney University described its efforts to
integrate the use of four completely dif-
ferent and incompatible computers,
acquired as a result of tied donation.
[The Universities on the whole got
kicks from a number of speakers for their
Smith, the Board realises that you have reached your peak. You have achieved the
highest position possible with the company. In short, you’re fired.
failure to play a full role. Mr. K. E.
Grainger of the Public Service Board in
a particularly systematic paper claimed
that computing in universities is wrongly
being kept the privileged preserve of high-
powered mathematicians and scientists.
Ninety percent of the scope for computers
was in commerce and Government and
the great shortage of computer staff
was of those able to design business systems.
He was backed by Mr. Gibbs of Defence in
the assertion that computer training should
be directed far more to commerce, econ-
omics, and business administration
students.]
But if any one conclusion emerged from
the mass and complexity of what was
said during the week it was simply that
the future of computing is rather similar
to that of other great scientific and techni-
cal breakthroughs. Already it is possible
to foresee the ways in which technological
advance will enable the capacity of the
machines to be improved and their scope
broadened. Sustained research and de-
velopment work will see to the realisation
of these possibilities.
The problems which worry the com-
puter men are not on the side of hard-
ware, but are mainly about the assimila-
tion of the machinery into the economic
and social environment. It has been a
familiar refrain of scientists that the sen-
sible utilisation of newly won knowledge
is lagging behind its manufacture. It is
only the advent of guerilla-type warfare
which has for the time being silenced
the plaintiff cries of scientists against the
use of nuclear power in bombs. But
two things seem to make the problem
more acute for computerists.
For one thing their science is very
new and they are mostly young and
naively innocent of the strength of con-
servatism in the institutions for which
they work. A far greater innovation than
the jet engine, the computer is just as
new. The essentials were put together in
the last years of the war in the United
States but it was not until the early 1950 s


WHY THE EXCLUSIVE STC CALLBACK BUTTON
IS IMPORTANT TO BUSY EXECUTIVES
STC Australian Pentaconta
Crossbar PABX provides you
with a remarkably simple solu-
tion to your communications
bottlenecks. And it’s so fast,
efficientand convenientit makes
other systems obsolete. Here’s
how it works.
When a call comes in and
requires transfer to another ex-
tension, it’s simply a matter of
pressing the callback button and
dialling the other number. The
connection is made automati-
cally without assistance from
the telephonist. Imagine the
savings in time alone!
Calls can be transferred back
andforth an unlimited numberof
times to an unlimited nu-mber of
extensions. Callback buttons
can be fitted to any number of
extensions you require within
the Pentaconta system.
This is merely one of
the many outstanding
features of the STC Australian
Pentaconta Crossbar PABX.
For further information contact:
Standard Telephones and
Cables Pty. Limited, 252
Botany Rd., Alexandria, Sydney.
Phone: 69 0444. Melbourne:
44 5161. Canberra: 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD. : Fred Hoe & Sons,
Pty. Ltd. Brisbane, 4 1771. S.A. : Unbe-
haun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide
51 3731. W.A. : M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd.,
Perth 21 6461. TAS. : W. & G. Genders
Pty. Ltd., Launceston 2 2231. Hobart,
Burnie, Devonport.
t*
}
>
Sw-
AN TTT
■JLbbJmmJLm worldwide telecommunications and electronics
ASSOCIATE
at;
UIO6A


ISSUE NOW OPEN
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Issue at par of
$14,000,000
Unsecured Notes
71%
71%
71%
P.A. FOR 15 OR 20 YEARS
P.A. FOR 10 YEARS
P.A. FOR 7 YEARS
Applications may proceed only on the form referred to in and
attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus, obtainable from ...
• Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
• Any Branch of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
• The Underwriters
lan Potter & Co. E. L. & C. Baillieu
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
325 Collins Street,
Melbourne
360 Collins Street,
Melbourne
9197/R
that the first working machines went into
regular operation there. The first was
installed in Australia at Salisbury in
1955, but even in 1960 there were only
seven machines in this country. Now
there are 400. And the growth is not
only quantitative but qualitative.
Technical progress has been so quick
that it has often paid to replace machines
after four years. Already the industry is
into what it calls the third generation of
equipment, vacuum tubes and transistors
in their turn having been replaced as
basic elements.
Both types of growth show no signs of
tapering off for the time being. The scope
for computerisation is best measured by
the huge amount of paper work at present
involved in the running of a modern com-
munity. Eventually the greater propor-
tion of this will be replaceable with com-
puter systems and telecommunications.
Information can be much more cheaply
stored, sorted, manipulated, and retrieved
within computer systems than by clerks
with paper records. And infinitely more
quickly, which is often important.
Already in banks, for instance, it is pos-
sible, according to Mr. J. McDonald, of
IBM, to eliminate four-fifths of the jobs
of keeping ledgers by installing computers.
In time most such white-collar drudgery
can be eliminated, just as machines have
made life easier and more productive for
factory and construction workers. And
once the tide of paper work is being coped
with, then the computer can be used to
provide new insights into the possibilities
and choices open to management.
Not only does a full computer system
enable the conventional accounting reports
to be made available more regularly and
quickly, but it enables new surveys to be
made. Mr. J. S. Hodge, of Australian
National Industries Ltd., described the
possibilities of “simulation,” or conduct-
ing series of experiments to test the likely
profitability of different courses of action.
Scheduling of a fleet of trucks or planes
or the construction of a "building can be
organised in the optimum manner through
the technique of programming.
Computers are getting cheaper all the
time (they need to) and the adoption of
the new technique of monolithic construc-
tion for the circuity of the core of the
computer will knock costs down still fur-
ther. Construction of the gadgetry itself
will be brought down by automated meth-
ods, and since the machine will be much
smaller the amount of expensive air-
conditioning and building required to
house it will be cut.
Storage will be increased and with the
acquisition of what are called heuristic
abilities the computer will gradually cease
to be merely the industrious dolt which it
now is, needing detailed instructions on
what to do under every conceivable cir-
cumstance, being unable to do even the
most basic, and elemental thinking process.
With heuristic characteristics the com-
puter should be able to make the job
much easier for his controller, the pro-
grammer, and recognise patterns of facts
saving it from the idiot procedure of
searching right through every individual
possibility.
Basically the reason the computer scien-
tist has more trouble getting his product
adopted is that it is so close to the mana-
ger in its functional position in an organi-
sation. And its proper use as an account-
ing and managerial tool requires drastic
rearrangements of the organisation of the
firm. Dr. M. G. Kendall, of the British
Council of Economic and Industrial Re-
search, made the point that computers
would eliminate much of the need for
middle-level management.
Mr. Gerald Robinson, of Colgate
Palmolive, was one who suggested that
the horizontal organisation of firms into
the traditional functions of personnel, fin-
ance, production, and so on, would be
made obsolete by full computerisation:
‘Data processing permits and its exploita-
tion tends to demand a vertical separation
of management into decision-making,
information-servicing implementation.”
Furthermore the role of the computer
renders inconvenient the old sub-divisions
of the management function. So the
Computer Man in the organisation is a
disruptive element (even if constructively
so) and, as Mr. E. H. Gibbs pointed out,
is a suspect, unpopular man.


A Kennedy Man
Journalist’s journal
By SAM LIPSKI
AT 40 Pierre Salinger is a round-
faced jolly man, quick-witted and
overtly sensual in his fondness for
cigars, good food, and drink. He has lost
weight some 301 b. since his White
House days as Press Secretary to Presi-
dents Kennedy and Johnson, but none
of his reported capacity to talk enthusiastic-
ally about his two great loves politics
and the Press.
It is this enthusiasm and readiness to
talk which partly accounts for the wide
coverage he got from all media while he
was in Australia last week as part of
a “task force” publicising Continental Air-
lines, an American company of which
he is a vice-president. Salinger is a
journalist’s journalist and handled every
Press conference, interview, or television
appearance with an eagerness and flow
of answers which is rare in the public
personalities Australian journalists spend
most of their time working on to extract
a worthwhile sentence.
Salinger himself was of course only
part of the reason. It was the still potent
magic of the Kennedy name which drew
the journalists and accounted for many
of the questions. Salinger is the first
of the “inner circle” of the Kennedy White
House Staff to come to Australia, and even
two years after the Kennedy assassination
that still means a great deal.
When the airlines business which had
brought him here had been covered at
his Press Conference in Sydney, Salinger
settled down to a series of television and
radio interviews and a smaller Press con-
ference on the subject which aroused the
greatest interest Vietnam.
Stated or unstated the question at the
back of all the queries about his views
on Vietnam was: “What would Kennedy
have done if he had lived?” Salinger is
quite definite about his answer. “I think
that those people who criticise President
Johnson by trying to suppose what Presi-
dent Kennedy would have done are being
dishonest. They don’t know what Ken-
nedy would have done. What we do
have is the record. It was under Presi-
dent Kennedy that the number of advisers
in Vietnam rose from 600 to 20,000.”
Salinger thought that Johnson was now
carrying out “decisions in the making” as
far back as ten years ago. A supporter
of Johnson’s policy in Vietnam, he thinks
Johnson should be commended for his
ability to steer the middle course between
those who want to withdraw from Vietnam
and those who want to escalate the war
by striking against Hanoi and Haiphong.
Generally his views are based on
orthodox pro-Administration assessments.
Communist China will not risk involve-
ment in Vietnam in the present circum-
stances because she does not want to give
the United States “hawks” any excuse to
put pressure on Johnson for a pre-
emptive strike against her nuclear plants.
If anything the recent thermo-nuclear
explosion by the Chinese was a reason
for not expecting her to get involved in
Vietnam. A military solution was not
possible in Vietnam, but until the Viet-
cong and North Vietnam were made to
believe that they could not win a military
victory a political solution would be hard
to get.
Vietnam was one of the reasons why
Johnson had been unable to get the
recognition he deserved as a President,
especially overseas. The other was the
invidious comparisons of style that were
made between him and Kennedy. Salinger
thought it was a failure of the American
intellectual community that some sections
of it had been unable to see through the
surface differences of style to the sub-
stance of Johnson’s great legislative pro-
gram. “What have the liberals and the
intellectuals been fighting for all these
years if it was not for a war against
Salinger at the White House.
poverty, for civil rights, for improving
education, for beautifying the cities.”
Outside the United States Salinger be-
lieves that some of the problems with
Johnson’s “image” start in relations between
the White House and the Overseas Press
Corps in Washington. Salinger had gone
out of his way to ensure that the Foreign
Press got what they wanted in Washing-
ton. For the first time he appointed
an assistant Press secretary who dealt
exclusively with the foi'eign Press. He
was critical of the Johnson administration
for paying too little attention to foreign
newsmen. It showed in their reporting
from the Capital.
Salinger’s own road to the White
House began in San Francisco after the
Second World War. A wartime skipper of
a mine sweeper in the Pacific at the
age of 19, he was decorated for his part
in a hazardous rescue mission. As a
journalist on the “San Francisco Chronicle”
he gained a reputation as an investigating
reporter particularly after he “served
time” in California penitentiaries and then
wrote a seventeen part expose series of
the conditions in the State’s prisons. His
revelations led to the appointment of
a State inquiry and some needed reforms.
He was working on another series of
expose articles for the now defunct “Col-
lier’s” magazine when he first met Bobby
Kennedy. Salinger’s assignment had been
a series on Jimmy Hoffa, the trade-union
leader being investigated at the time by
Bobby Kennedy and a Senate committee.
When the magazine folded Salinger met
Bobby Kennedy again and was offered a
job as a Congressional investigator. He
took it. “A quirk of fate,” he says.
By 1959 John Kennedy knew he was-
going to try for the Presidency in 1960
and asked Salinger to set up his Press
organisation. Puffing at the ever-present
cigar,' Salinger recalls; “I was given a
very wide franchise by Kennedy. He
told me that he had never had a per-
manent Press officer before and would
do anything I thought had to be done
to get a good Press set-up going.” What
was Salinger’s philosophy in setting up
the organisation?
“My operating philosophy was simple.
It was to make it as easy as possible for
the working reporter to get his story.
We brought in some new innovations in
the 1960 Presidential campaign. We
engaged stenotypists who supplied an
instant transcript of Kennedy’s speeches
everywhere he went. Reporters didn’t
have to take notes, but could concentrate
on atmosphere and on crowd reaction.
We looked after their baggage for them,
for instance, so that they would leave
it with us in the morning and find it
waiting for them in their hotel rooms
at the next town. Little things like that
made them look forward to being with
us especially after they had been with
Nixon, who didn’t know how to treat
the Press.”
Salinger is quick to explain that Ken-
nedy himself made good Press relations
very much easier because his own ex-
perience as a journalist and his own
liking of the Press made him accessible —
more than any previous President. Much
of his free time was spent with journalists.
Walter Lippmann, James Reston of the
“New York Times,” Joe Alsop, and the
columnist Bill White were among the
journalists he respected particularly. Ken-
nedy also had a very high regard for
some of the senior television reporters
and commentators, which led to some
memorable programs like the three net-
work “conversation with a President” in
1962.
In office the policy of accessibility was
continued. Salinger feels that it was not
a case of a conscious attempt to build up
the Kennedys which led to the wide
coverage. It was the willingness of the
White House to listen to any idea which
came from the mass media. “We didn’t
follow the long-established pattern that
if one newspaper got a special interview
every newspaper was entitled to one. We
were ready to go along with any medium
and give them an exclusive. It encour-
aged initiative by the Press.” Where
Kennedy was at home with the televised
Press conference Salinger feels Johnson


■ 5:
m
<3
iV-.
m
'■:■■ ■■■:•■-'•.- ■ ;
' '
Why do so many businessmen fly TAA?
Because TAA is a successful
business enterprise
TAA is a business enterprise required
to make a profit and pay a dividend just
like any other commercial undertaking.
And people naturally prefer to do business
with sound, competent enterprises.
The Airline is operated by the Australian
National Airlines Commission, in the same way
as a public company is controlled by a board of
directors.
7£% DIVIDEND
TAA has a capital of $15,000,000, unchanged
since 1961.
Out of a net profit for 1964/65 of $1,409,052
TAA’s 7i% dividend to the Treasury absorbs
$1,125,000.
TAA PAYS TAX
TAA is subject to income tax, payroll tax, sales
tax, etc., normally met by other commercial en-
terprises, and has to pay special tax on aviation
fuel and air route charges as well.
In its operation TAA enjoys no special privi-
leges over its competitors. TAA must win every
passenger and pound of air cargo in open business
competition.
JET-AGE EFFICIENCY
The fact that TAA gains the greater overall
share of the competitive passenger market is in-
dicative of TAA’s business efficiency.
The continued business success of TAA helps
to preserve the competition vital to a healthy
airline industry.
BENEFITS OF COMPETITION
This competition guarantees that every Austra-
lian will continue to enjoy the right to choose by
which airline he will fly, or consign air cargo.
Competition also helps maintain the highest
standards of service for Australian air travellers.
Supporters of free enterprise, in placing busi-
ness with TAA, are preserving for themselves
these benefits of business competition in the air-
line industry.
This is one reason why so many business-
men fly on our Whispering T-Jets. Another is that
they simply prefer to fly TAA.
TAA is in business for your business
TAA
the Friendly Way
sa/css vvx


A LW Scraper at work on the Bolivar Sewerage Project, Salisbury, S.A.
Mam
LW
*5
ye
PUU
,-v
**-*• ; •W'-
HUE
WITH THE MIGHT OF
Made in Australia by engineers with years of on-the-job know-how,
mighty LW Tournapull Self-Loading Scrapers are backed by the
highly specialised technical services of the world-wide Le
Tourneau-Westinghouse organisation. You will find them coping
with the toughest jobs from the tropics to the snow country
throughout the Commonwealth and overseas.
To mention just a few of the many projects on which Australian-
made Tournapull Self-Loading Scrapers are constantly employed:—
■ COAL STOCKPILING, N.S.W. ■ HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
AND MAINTENANCE, THAILAND, MALAYSIA AND THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND ■ AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION,
NEW GUINEA ■ HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IN SINGAPORE AND
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
m
E for EXPORT
Only earthmoving equipment manufacturer to receive
the Award for Outstanding Export Achievement.
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINGHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities in all States.
LW248.106


is at his best with an informal setting
with a group of correspondents.
Salinger left the White House in 1964
to go into the Senate and run for political
office. “I didn’t leave President Johnson
because I disagreed with his policies or
because we couldn’t get on. In fact,
President Johnson came to California to
campaign on my behalf and our relations
were friendly.” But Salinger lost the
California elections in 1964 to former actor
George Murphy after having been a
Senator for five months. Then his wife
divorced him. With a touch of self-
mocking humour he says: “It. was a
traumatic year. I had a brief stint
in the motion-picture industry as a busi-
ness executive. Then I to Europe and
took, part in a Doris Day film, ‘Do Not
Disturb,’ only to find that my .one-minute
role ended up on the cutting-room floor.
I had played the part of an American
diplomat in Paris.” In France he got
married for the third time to a
French journalist.
Pierre Salinger can already look back
on a life which has brought him as close
as any man has been to great power with-
out directly wielding that power him-
self. Only perhaps Theodore Sorenson
was closer to President Kennedy among
the White House staff. But Salinger was
the “middle-man” through whom the use
of the power was explained and justified
to the world.
By 1972, when another Kennedy will
be ready to run for President, men like
Salinger and Sorenson will be ready to
return once more to the White House,
Salinger certainly has already felt the
call. “Bobby Kennedy has the same high
standards and the same striving for
excellence that John Kennedy had. He
has grown more than any man I know
in the last ten years. If he wants me
at any future date I will be ready to work
for him.” And again; “I think that Presi-
dent Kennedy left something that people
are going to believe in for the rest of
their lives. There is no need for myths
about Kennedy. He was enough in real
life not to need any legends.”
The Vanishing Australian
The Population Fizzle
By KEVIN CAIRNS, MHR
THE variety of opinions concerning
current changes in the Australian
birthrate cover every part of the
spectrum. Many still judge the decline
to be only temporary, or explain enthusi-
astically “It’s due' to women working”; or
“Babies are spaced better now”; or “We
are in the gap now following the ten-
dency in the ’sos for mothers to have
babies close together”; a more sophisticated
version runs: “Why worry, anyway, if fewer
babies are being born these things,
in the past, have always corrected them-
selves.” In spite of these consolations,
the figures run downhill faster every
quarter.
The birthrate is falling sharply
and an analysis of the expected offspring
from each marriage shows a steepening
rate of decline. The accompanying graph
shows clearly that we; are approaching a
critical and vital position in the Australian
situation.
From the graph it is clear: we are
rapidly approaching the danger level
position for Australia. Since 1961
and the introduction of the pill, the
expected offspring from each marriage
has run consistently downwards and at
an increasing rate.
Expected Offspring per Marriage.
Children
1961 2.84
1962 2.78
1963 2.72
1964 2.58
1965 2.45
1966 2.25-2.28
The expected 1966 offspring per mar-
riage is a calculation made from pre-
liminary figures of births for the first
quarter of 1966.
Why it could be said are not
two children per marriage sufficient for
replacement? We need more 2.18
children, because more boy babies than
girl babies are born, a certain number of
girl babies do not survive, and marry, etc.
We are fast approaching the danger level,
and—although there will be a consider-
able natural increase for some years—the
inevitable day of reckoning dawned five
years ago.
There remains, however, a persistent
tendency to write off this kind of analysis.
Some authorities including the
Minister for Social Services have related
the decline in births to married women
entering the work force. Quite apart
from the depressant effect of this on a
generally natalist spirit in the com-
munity, there is not a lot of evidence to
support this view. In Queensland, where,
following the days of Colin Clark, there
are some remarkably valuable demographic
data published, it is known that the
decline in the birthrate has been just as
extensive for rural and non-metropolitan
areas as for the city. There are relatively
few work opportunities for married women
in rural areas and provincial cities, etc.
The evidence shows clearly the current
decline has gone through every class, age
group, and strata of society. Geography
has no exceptions in this.
Yet, hope persists again that the situa-
tion is only temporary. Some academics
say blandly, that more babies were born
per marriage during the late ’sos and
up until 1961, because women had the
children close together. Like men close
together in line a gap has to occur
and we are in that gap now. The present
gap is due to postponed births. Hence,
they suggest, the present situation will
pass in 1967 or 1968. This is an in-
triguing explanation if only the evidence
were there. The decline is just as great
for the children born in later years of
marriage, as those born in the earlier
years. There seems little hope of com-
pensation for the present decline under
present conditions and attitudes.
A little more hopefully, others claim
that the children will be better spaced,
and that each family will ultimately have
the same number of babies, an interest-
ing variant of the “we are in the gap
now, after children were born close to-
gether” argument. The fact is that the
age at which Australian mothers have
been tending to have their last child is
now 30-31 years. This age has been
declining constantly for nearly 40 years.
To make up later in married life for
the babies not born during the early
years, would require an extension of this
age, and a reversal of nearly four decades
of experience. Obviously it is the least
hopeful of all the suggestions.
As far as can be judged, the present
birthrate trends show no signs of self-
correction, and appear to be chronic and
persistent. Is this position so serious?
The strategic and defensive considerations
are important enough; in addition all
the plans to sustain rapid economic growth
demand large additions to the work-
force. The Vernon Committee envisaged
no insuperable problems to achieving a
5 percent growthrate until 1975. With a
high rate of workforce increase, the prob-
lem of increased capital backing per worker
is avoided. Capital deepening can be
averted. The choice of 1975 is a happy
one because the decline in births now
restricts workforce additions in the
post 1975 era.
This is the nub of our future problems
which must help to topple our hope for
high rates of growth. Entrepreneurs know
that a rapidly increasing labor force
cushions investment errors. Plant is not
left idle in the changeover to new tech-
niques and processes. Change is easier
and more profitable. All this can be lost
on present trends. Merely postponing
any approach to inducing higher birth-
rates until the late 19705, cannot hope
to produce significant workforce changes
until the late 19905. Australia has not
this kind of time in which to manoeuvre.
Probably the most distressing feature of
present trends are not the actual figures,
but an attitude of pessimism toward the
family and the future. In France, eco-
nomic expansion and revitalisation was
preceded by a sociological change toward
the family and children. “L’economie


Mr. Carter's such a dear!
I mightn't have said that a
month ago, because he always
seemed so stern and strict.
But really, he's not like that
at all. Why just last week he
bought me the most beautiful
typewriter. What sort? Oh,
it's a Remington 25 Electric.
I picked it myself.
It's got what they call
Ultra-Touch, and it's fabulous.
Of course, Mr. Carter didn't buy
it only to please me. I mean, as
the Remington man said, he'll
really save a lot of money.
He said a Remington 25 would
make my efficiency as a secretary
go up by as much as 20%. And
after a while, you know,
that saves more than the cost.
I nearly fell over when
Mr. Carter told me to
pick the sort I liked.
I'd gone in there expecting
him to blow up when I told
him I was just fed up with
that old bomb I had.
You know what he said ?
'Miss Dawson, you ring up the
typewriter companies and get
them to show you their machines.
Then tell me the sort you want.'
Well anyway, I saw a couple
before I saw the Remington 25.
And, well . . . those others
just didn't compare.
Besides being so heavenly
to type on, its also got these
25 special features.
The Remington man told me
no other typewriter has got
all of them. Anyway, after
I tried it out, I didn't want
to see any others.
So now I've got this
gorgeous new typewriter.
The Remington 25 Electric.
So don't anyone say my boss
is an ogre. He's beautiful! ||
Remington Rand The Largest Business Equipment Organisation in the World
Sydney 2.0925 Melbourne 69.0660 Brisbane 5.4651 Adelaide 8.4631 Launceston 2.2358 Hobart 2.2886 Canberra 4.0885 Perth 23.2281
RR469


9k
ifra
NR
f>€c^m
fp-i&taU’forUfa*
Friends’ Provident the name to remember when you’re thinking of
assurance the Office with the personal approach, who have advised
on Life Assurance for more than 130 years.
Group Funds Exceed $450,000,000
FRIENDS’ PROVIDENT
AND CENTURY LIFE OFFICE
Incorporated in the United Kingdom
Head Office For Australia: “Century House” 70 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Chairman: Lieut-General Sir John Northcott, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C.B.
Deputy Chairman: Major-General Sir Denzil Macarthur-Onslow, C.8.E., D. 5.0., E.D.
selerotique” of the ’2os and 5 30 s was
ushered out with increased birthrates after
the war and these rates have remained
high in recent years. The sociological
revival preceded the economic revival.
Children preceded both. We can benefit
from French experiences without suffering
from her near century of humiliation.
What can be done? After all, the des-
cription of this problem is not its solution.
Undeniably, we need a population explo-
sion in Australia. Develop the North is a
hollow catch-cry in a country with a
rapidly declining birthrate, about as mean-
ingful as the “People-the-Nullabor-Plain”
Committee.
Two approaches are needed. A different
social code toward families and children
should be adopted, especially toward
families of three or more children. Cer-
tain economic measures ought also to be
considered.
One does not need to be an inveterate
movie fan to realise that Hollywood in-
variably pictures parents of large families
as. either grim-faced, humorless, pitiful
creatures whose burdens are too heavy;
or at the other extreme as very unworldly,
unsophisticated, carefree people to the
extent of being irresponsible. These atti-
tudes pervade Australian advertising.
National advertising for the new Holden
represented it as a family car for man,
wife, and two children. If parents re-
garded this as the ideal, the country would
be finished. Alternatively, advertising for
washing-machines might show the mother
of a large family —always she has a “not
with it” accent, very unsophisticated, and
seems rather overwhelmed by it all.
Nothing as drastic as the French code
fe famille is needed nor would it be
tolerated. Interestingly enough, large
families on low incomes are one of the
poverty groups in Australia, and certainly
in the United Kingdom and the United
States. Recent work in the United King-
dom there there is much better and
more precise data to measure this kind
of thing, indicates that large families are
the group comprising an increasing pro-
portion of those living at poverty and sub-
standard levels. The British Government
Household expenditure survey illustrates
clearly that the levels of nutrition of the
average all classes of families of four or
more children are unsatisfactory. Austra-
lian evidence indicates that we have 6-7
percent of householders at a poverty level,
compared with 14 percent in the United
Kingdom and 18 percent in the
United States. There is a case in
social justice for families with more than
the average number of children.
The economic key to the problem of
encouraging a higher birthrate is to enable
families of three or more children to
maintain their position in their own group.
This applies to the lower- and middle-
income group brackets especially. Once, in
the old European analyses of families, all
the larger and potentially larger families
were in the lower-income groups. In Aus-
tralia, and the United Kingdom, larger
families have spread up the income scale.
For example, two men on £25 per week,
and skilled tradesmen, are in similar
status situations. The first may be married
with one child. The second may have
five or six children. The latter clearly slips
into a lower standard of living, and this
above all else, militates against having
children.
Graduated child endowment for later
children is the only way tb help such
people have the children they would
desire, while maintaining their social posi-
tion. The French experience, especially
among the poor, shows that people will
not have a “baby to buy a bike” by gain-
ing extra endowment. Rather they will
be encouraged to have the children they
would have desired.
The second string to the economic
approach concerns increasing graduations
for taxation concessions. This assists
the higher- and middle-income groups
particularly. Together with endowment,
the group status level can be maintained
with this approach and the desired family
size maintained.
The remarkable feature of the French
scheme is that the birthrates in France
rose after the War, and have remained high
in real terms during recent years. The
decline in, e.g., the United States and
the United Kingdom, is. catastrophic. The
decline in Australia is intolerable, especi-
ally as it has occurred during five years
of full employment, rising levels of real
wages. The group position of the larger
families has deteriorated relatively, for
which the wage structure must take some
blame.
Were we to maintain the children per
marriage at the 1961 levels, everything
would be satisfactory. The group status
approach can remedy the situation as the
remarkable stability of the number of
children born per 1000 married women in
the various age groups in France has
indicated.


ONE MORE
WEEK
Getting mad
OF COURSE, no one can keep ahead of
all the snobberies, but glancing through
“Outrage,” edited by Don Gazzard, with
pictures and text showing what architects
find most unattractive in the Australian
environment, it is clear that many of the
things that make architects mad are just
the things which the pop-art enthusiasts
are mad about.
Literary Salingers
FORMER WHITE HOUSE Press
secretary Pierre Salinger still suffers from
a case of mistaken identity. An eager
radio interviewer in Sydney last week
asked him, “And, tell us, Mr. Salinger
can we expect anything new from you in
the literary field?” Salinger replied that
his book about the Kennedy years, to be
called “With Kenedy,” was coming out
in September. Undaunted the radio
interviewer continued, “But what about
fiction?”
In his hotel room later Salinger said
the confusion between him and J. D.
Salinger (no relation) continues. He
recalled an irate letter in a Baltimore
newspaper at the time of his appointment
which asked: “How can a man of the
moral standing of John Kennedy appoint
someone who could write ‘Franny and
Zooey’?”
Fantasy in Prasad-Land
WE HAVE sometimes been a trifle scep-
tical of the sad tales of salesmen who
have gone out to capture an Asian market,
only to find their task made almost im-
possible because some blundering com-
patriot has put his foot in it there be-
fore. However, an Australian firm, which
has been trying to do business as close at
hand as Fiji, has sent us along tearsheets
from the local newspapers, outlining an
incident which we can well believe has
hampered them in business there.
The tearsheets include advertisements of
land for sale, similar to those which appear
in every newspaper in Australia. These
were for Alfred Grant Pty. Ltd., of Bris-
bane, and follow the familiar pattern.
(“Sewerage within 12 months” and so
on.) However, some have a special note:
“The purchase of land in Australia does
not entitle the owner to gain entry into
the country,” to which has later been
added the thoughtful rider: “And there is
no reason to expect that this will be
changed in the foreseeable future.”
Last November, the Australian Com-
missioner in Fiji, Mr. R. N. Hamilton,
issued a Press statement pointing out
that in answer to people who had made
inquires at his office buying land in Aus-
tralia gave no rights of entry or resi-
dence in Australia. “Nor is there any
reason to expect that this situation will
alter,” he added.
However, on December 15, a letter
appeared in the “Pacific Review,” signed
by E. Rowley Pym, described as over-
seas manager for Alfred Grant Pty. Ltd.
Mr. Pym wrote that the name of his
company had been mentioned in connec-
tion with the purchase of Australian land
and the rights of owners to gain entry to
Australia. “We advertise extensively the
fact that the ownership of land by the
people of Fiji does not carry any privilege
to enter at the present time,” Mr. Pym
wrote. “However,” he added, “I cannot
agree that there is no reason to expect
that this situation will alter; on the con-
trary, it is quite obvious to any reasonable
thinking person that Australia must re-
lax her present immigration laws and
fall into line with America and Canada.
“Repeatedly there have appeared re-
ports of the movement known as the
‘Federation of Oceania,’ and it is pleasing
to read that the leaders of our great
countries are stressing the vital need of
free trade and movement of the people
of the South Pacific.”
Another letter from Mr. Pym on Decem-
ber 22 said he wished “to put on record
that these were my own personal views
and are not endorsed by Alfred Grant
Pty. Ltd., of Brisbane, nor the local agents
in Fiji.”
In the flesh
MR. GENE BARRY, or Captain Amos
Burke, whichever you prefer, seems as
attractive off the screen as he is on. It
is customary, when viewing ladies and
gentlemen with the naked eye rather than
through one’s 23-inch television set, to
detect physical discrepancies of the more
unflattering kind. Barry, an admitted in-
the-forties man, has none of these. If
anything, and if Sydney Press photog-
raphers won’t mind us saying so, he is
infinitely better looking in the flesh than
in their pictures.
At one point in the interview' Mr.
Barry offered to take our photograph. He
said it would take three months to finish
the roll, so one can assume that his heart
is not in photography.
He is, however, most concerned about
newspaper reporters, especially, he ex-
plained, those of the younger generation
whose ignorance of showmanship and
knowledge of hate and yeh-yeh appals
him. They come to see him with pre-
conceived idea of what he is like. What
does he think of newspapermen, they
ask. How would he know until he got to
know them?
Mr. Barry said he was also concerned
about international friendliness. Once,
in Brazil, he was awarded a plaque by
the President. Indeed, Vice-President
Humphries of the United States, who was
then Senator, tells an amusing story of
the time he landed in Brazil and remarked
to an aide how wonderful it was that
all those people had turned out to see
him when, it turned out, they were there
to see Gene Barry.
Mr. Barry said he rarely gives inter-
views. He was doing so this time to help
his friends at Chequers, who, incidentally,
are paying him at their highest rate. They
have also supplied a pleasant publicity
girl who goes to no end of trouble
sheltering Mr. Barry from the facts of life;
for instance, the crash-landing of the plane
he should have come here in, and the
fact that his Rolls-Royce is hired from a
local funeral parlor. Theatrical people,
she said, can be so superstitious.
Figurative
RODNEY MILGATE was definitely a
figurative painter, director Mary Turner
at the Sydney Macquarie Galleries assured
us. “Look,” she said, pointing to a blue-
grey painting called, she said, “Autumn.”
“You can distinguish sort of foetal shapes
if you look hard.”
The foetal shapes were certainly there.
But why “Autumn?” “Patrick White,” Mrs.
Turner said, “says Milgate is the most
personal painter he’s ever seen.”
Investigation proved the painting was
not “Autumn” but “Dream of Birth.” It
gave a reason for the foetal shapes, but how
did it tie in with Milgate’s assertion
that he tried to relate significant things
with things that had meaning? “For
instance,” said Milgate, a handsome young
man with an untrimmed black beard and
brown eyes, “A Stop sign has meaning.
It does not have significance. And a rock,
any inanimate object, can have significance
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
President Sukarno is behaving him-
self much more now, he is much more
sensible.
—lndonesian Foreign Minister, Adam Malik.
I live in an almost permanent state
of embarrassment.
—British Chancellor of the Exchequer, James
Callaghan.
A university department is equivalent
to a big business and should be managed
like one.
—Professor J. S. Anderson, of Oxford, at
present at W.A. University.
In recent weeks I have said a few
things I regret.
—U.S. Senator Fulbright.
I would not be allowed to acquire
a big Australian newspaper even if
one was available, which it is not. And
what is the point of acquiring a small
one?
—Cecil Harmsworth King.
Nato policies, Nato organisation, and
Nato arms are completely obsolete.
—Dr. Adenauer.
I am a hit of a prude myself.
—Gypsy Rose Lee.
American television must raise its ceil-
ing by some method other than lowering
the floor.
Jack Gould. TV critic of the “New York
Times.’’
More than any other form of enter-
tainment the cinema makes me forget
my own miseries and the miseries of
mankind.
-M. Andre Maurois.


but no meaning. In my painting I try to
reconcile the two.”
At 31, Milgate may at the moment be
the nearest thing Australia has to Renais-
sance man, a phrase he accepted happily.
He writes poetry for “Australian Letters”
and some of his poems have been read
on the ABC’s “Spectrum” program, has
acted in television and stage plays with
his wife, Dinah Shearing, and is fairly
confident that a non-naturalistic play, based
on the Dionysian legend, will be accepted
by Old Tote producer Robin Lovejoy.
Four years ago Milgate was an announcer
on Channel 7, Sydney. “Actually, they
hired me as a writer, because they’d heard
I’d done a few things for Phillip Street
and some curtain speeches for John Alden,”
he said. “But then I’d been an actor as
well, so I got landed with the announcing
job.”
All of this was simply extraneous to
his real business painting. “It was hell
for me at Fort Street Boys’ School,” he
said. “In those days they turned out
good Establishment types, doctors and
lawyers and dentists by the score, and
anyone who painted or mucked about with
Latin was a dead loss. You didn’t need
things like that to be a pillar of the
community, you see.”
After leaving Fort Street Milgate en-
dured a few years as a schoolteacher in
towns like Cooma and Goulburn. “It’s
very cold, very lonely, and people have
minds precisely this big,” he explained, and
it is his private sufferings in the country
that have come through in his play,
although he is quick to point out that it
is by no means the traditional naturalistic
three-acter set in a small town.
In 1963 Milgate gave up television to
devote his full time to painting. Now
nine hours a week are spent teaching, to
pay, he says, for the framing. He would
like to act again, and has been offered
several parts, but, if he did, it would only
be for pleasure. “After the first couple
of nights I don’t get anything more out
of it, and I’d go mad if a play went on
too long,” he said.
Milgate has one large painting, called
“Credenda,” in the Mertz collection and
has sold some paintings privately in
America. He has also had a mixed show in
Japan and later this year there will be
another show at the Commonwealth In-
stitute Galleries in Kensington, London.
Milgate at the moment is keen on all
things primitive. “I grew this,” he said,
pointing to the beard, “because I was get-
ting sick of shaving. Literally sick, all
sorts of odd pains. The doctor said he’d
had quite a few cases like mine and
advised me to grow the beard. I’ve never
felt better.” But lack of exercise worries
him, and the Milgate car may be next to
go. “I’m against cars,” he said. “Which
means to be logical I’ve got to be against
living at Newport. So we’ll probably move
closer to town, somewhere like Neutral
Bay.
“The world would be a lot better,” he
declared, “if things like cars and auto-
matic washing-machines were scrapped.
We could all get on with the really im-
portant business, of just being ourselves.”
Tanner's
Week
If it s non-harmful and non-addictive,.
what the hell are we smoking it for?"
"He's the fastest accidental gun in
the force."
"The delayed quarter-hour service is
on time, this is the delayed half-hour
service and it's running late."


lead the world in glassmaking
M
i~
a?
m.
V
*jr
7Z
i
■*-
7
y*
S'*
There’s no more searching test of a
glass than to make it into a mirror, and
reflect an object in it again and again.
There’s no doubt which glass makes to-
day’s finest, truest mirrors Float glass,
invented and developed by Pilkingtons.
Pilkington glass is made or processed
in up-to-date plants in nine countries,
and behind every product are the vast
resources of some of the glass industrys’
largest laboratories, working on quality
control, and on research and development.
Pilkington research and development
produced Float glass which, with its new
clarity and brilliance, outdates Plate
glass in modern building, for mirror
making and for toughening into
safety glass.
For the finest glass specify Pilkingtons.
Pilkingtons' Agent in Australia . . .
Pilkingtons’ service in Australia is
provided by Mr. C. Rogers who can help
you in any problem concerning the use
of glass. Just write to Mr. C. Rogers,
4 Bridge Street (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney,
N.S.W. Pilkingtons’ glass is available
from glass merchants throughout
Australia. Head Office: Pilkington
Brothers Limited, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England.
FOR MODERN ROILDING SPECIFY GLASS RV PILKINGTONS-INVENTORS OF FLOAT
PK1502/65


fd
Schimmelpenninck
Duet
(Actual size)
in tins of 5,
packets of 10 and
barrels of 25.
Schimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Holland’s
finest cigars -
fast becoming
Australia’s
favourites
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars
are imported for your pleasure by
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.) Ltd.
sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V.
Wageningen Holland.
RPMI9B
THE OTHER SEX
From Milliner to
Millionaire
1 DON’T know about you, but to me
“The Selling Power of a Woman”
conjures up something more exciting
than flogging houses. However, to Miss
Ebby Halliday, a Texan real estate tycoon
and a dozen other powerful things, too, it
means just that.
Hotfoot from Tokyo, Miss Halliday, in
dark glasses and bowler hat, held forth
on the subject to the male section of the
Sydney Press, the female section pre-
sumably, it being Saturday morning, at
home doing domestic chores. Miss Halli-
day said she wasn’t disappointed not to
see the girls. To her this was indicative
that there weren’t many female jour-
nalists in Sydney.
As it turned out, I’m not so sure we
are the sort who could make a go of
real estate, anyway.
First and foremost, said Miss Halliday,
who, by the way, is married to a fine,
upstanding gentleman called Maurice —•
she met him during National Business
Working Week -- a woman’s sixth sense
is superior to man’s in any form, and she
thinks any woman who approaches
a business world with this philosophy
has a good start. She herself rose from
milliner to millionaire in 20 years. How-
ever, to be a success a woman should be
feminine. This immediately suggests a
vision of gorgeous clothes and all the
trimmings. Not so. On trips like this
it is Miss Halliday’s husband who carts
around tons of exotic clothing. Much,
he said, to his embarrassment. He car-
ried umpteen cases of correct dinner dress
around the world to be told that none
was necessary. He missed the one occasion
when white dinner jacket was in order.
As well as being feminine (i.e., carrying
capsule wardrobes) and in order to do
business like Miss Halliday’s the thing
is to act like a lady. “For example,
exploit your feminine talents for all they
are worth, but make the man feel his
judgment is right in the end.” Now I
would say that that statement was illogical.
Or, to be more accurate, I cannot see
in what possible circumstances one could
achieve the former while pulling off the
latter. I knew a lady estate agent in
England who said if you behaved like a
lady you got treated as one and nobody
coughed up the 1011.
This brings me to another point which
I feel needs further explanation. Very
clearly in impeccable Pitman’s short-
hand I made the note “Women who don’t
have to work, who are financially inde-
pendent, make better salesmen (Miss Hal-
liday calls them associates) than those
who do.” “Do you mean,” I asked, “that
you don’t pay them very well?” No,
replied Miss Halliday, she meant they
do get paid well. I’m not so stupid that
I don’t understand one is a better worker
if not forced into it I’ve been saying
that to my family ever since I married
it. All the same, it’s tough to think you’ve
got to be well heeled before you can
make a bigger pile.
At this stage, a male reporter began
pressing for “little tips” to give women,
presumably with the intention of passing
them on the minute he got home. They
included such expensive imports as some-
one to help with the family, and if, said
Miss Halliday, this wasn’t available the
potential working wife “must arrange
things to the full benefit of her family.”
One of her best associates had five
children, three of whom were of primary
school age, so it depends entirely on the
person.
The reporter wore the expression of a
man who wished he hadn’t led with the
chin but, all credit to him, retaliated
with “Have men ever been deterred from
working with you Miss Halliday?” and
she, quick as a flash, replied: “I can
say, with all humility and without sound-
ing egocentric, that I have found my way
up in a man’s world and they have valued
from the start my position in the com-
munity.”
In America women are forsaking
country clubs and going into commerce.
They are, says Miss Halliday, bored with
bridge and turning to real estate, politics,
and all fields of business, social work,
Chamber of Commerce work. Could it
be possible, viz., Miss Halliday’s presence
here, that the same may be happening
in Australia? She thought so, but this
was not to be interpreted that women
were bored with marriage. “They should
still recognise that they are emotionally
dependent on their men, and enjoy it,”
she said.
The gentlemen present were beginning
to look worried when a nice, clear fact
emerged. It was that a great chunk of
Miss Halliday’s business is with large
firms who subsidise employees buying their
houses. It helped the wives who had to
shift roots to move with their families to
know that a woman had seen the place
in which they were going to live. It gave
them confidence, said Miss Halliday. She
and her husband then flew off to stay
with their friend Edward Clark, the
American Ambassador in Canberra, before
Miss Halliday began her lecture tour on
“The Selling Power of a Woman,” which
she is giving to real estate people.
I hope before she leaves Australia some-
one will have told Miss Halliday that the
genius who designed the Sydney Opera
House was not, as she thought, an Aus-
tralian, or even a Japanese artist
despite all those pretty sticking-out bits
that she admired.
DAPHNE GUINNESS


ECONOMISTS
The Papua and New Guinea Administration is seeking two academically
qualified Economists, with considerable experience in economic research and/
or as advisers in economic matters to help in the development of the
Territory.
The man appointed as Assistant Economic Adviser will be deputy to the
Territory’s Economic Adviser with particular responsibility for general finan-
cial and economic policy matters.
The other position of Economist is directly responsible to the Economic
Adviser with particular responsibility for economic development projects.
Both positions will be located in Port Moresby and the salaries are:
Assistant Economic Adviser $7598-$7BBB
Economist $7OlB-$7308
plus an allowance of $360 p.a. for married appointees, education allowances
and fares for children attending secondary school in Australia, accommodation
at a nominal rent and assisted leave passages to Australia for appointee and
family.
Three months’ Recreation Leave is granted after 21 months in the Territory,
and income tax is at present approximately half that paid in Australia.
The term and nature of the engagement will be arranged with the successful
applicants.
Applicants at present employed by a Commonwealth or State authority may
be considered for secondment for a period of two years in the first instance
with preservation of existing rights.
Applications, including age, qualifications and experience should be sent to
the Secretary, Department of Territories, Canberra, A.C.T., by 18th June,
1966, quoting advertisement No. 272.
PUBLIC SERVICE OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
NEW YORK NEWSLETTER
What is bad for GM?
ON the face of it, the main indicator
in Wall Street these days is not the
Dow Jones average, it is the price
of General Motors stock. In what looks
like a practical demonstration of the
principle “what is bad for General Motors
is bad for the United States,” the stock-
market has slumped 13| percent since the
Dow Jones index broke the 1000 barrier
in early February, with the latest sharp
falls coinciding with troubles in Detroit.
But it would be unreal to blame the
market downturn entirely on the motor
business, even though its sales slump is
the only bad news in an economy that
is still bounding forward, with all its
main indicators still well and truly up.
Most observers deny that the GM slump
and the stockmarket fall are signs that
the boom is coming to an end. They
list some solid reasons why the market
should have reassessed its position down-
wards without the stimulus of a motor
slump.
There is solid evidence that the Viet-
nam war is at the base of the market’s
uneasiness; that Vietnam has “spurred
the Four Horsemen of Prosperity into
a fast gallop inflation, labor shortages,
credit restraints, and payments deficits”;
but that none of these problems indicate
that the boom is about to turn into a
bust.
Quite apart from the motor situation, it
had been becoming evident to the market
that the five-year-long boom was bring-
ing with it prospects of an indefinitely
long period of overheating and strain,
comprising (as the London “Statist”
pointed out last week) “inflationary pres-
sures, higher taxes, maybe physical con-
trols, slower growth, and a standstill in
after-tax profits.”
But there can be no doubt that the
motor problem itself will have ripples
throughout the whole economy, which
could have a multiplying effect on the
motor business and on Wall Street.
There are sound reasons why the for-
tunes of the motor-car industry have such
a dramatic impact on Wall Street; it is no
ordinary industry. Detroit consumes more
than 20 percent of the entire steel pro-
duction of this country, 60 percent of
all rubber production, 35 percent of all
zinc production, and 75 percent of its
plateglass. About one-half of all radio
sets made in the U.S. go into motor cars.
As the “New York Times” pointed out
last week, “the car is a major bulwark
of the nation’s unprecedented prosperity.”
Each of the past four years has seen
the total output of Detroit production
lines reach new record levels. At the
beginning of this year industry spokes-
men were speaking confidently about
building 9,300,000 cars in 1966 for an
all-time peak, one which would have
seemed unattainable five years ago. It
is clear this total cannot be produced.
The General Motors slip sales down
24 percent in early May, and market
price for the shares down 22 percent
and announcements of production cut-
backs by the major makers were only
partly due to the economic factors that
give GM its role as a market barometer.
The 50 percent crash in sales of GM’s
Corvair (prime target of Ralph Nader’s
book “Unsafe at Any Speed”) indicates
clearly that the safety campaign has hit
the motor industry hard.
The talk at Oscar’s Bar, principal
watering spot of the top echelon of
brokers in Wall Street, is charged with
speculation these evenings about the
future trend of what had been the big-
gest bull market of all time.
One factor in the instability of Wall
Street and its reaction to such stimuli as
Detroit’s problem is the overwhelming
numbers of people who are now “playing
the market.” Not since 1929 a fateful
comparison, some fear have so many
ordinary citizens been so involved person-
ally in daily fluctuations of share prices.
Speculation by the public at large cab-
drivers, waiters, lawyers, clergymen, busi-
nessmen of all degress of affluence
accounts for more than half of the
enormous volume of trading on the
country’s principal exchanges. The rest
comes from institutions (mutual funds,
insurance companies, banks) and stock
exchange members trading for their own
account.
Clerks and executives alike must work
nights and over weekends in Wall Street
brokerage houses to keep abreast of the
tremendous expansion in business, par-
ticularly in the past seven months. During
1964 the average daily volume traded on
the New York Stock Exchange was
4,900,000 shares. So far this year, the
volume has averaged 8,500,000 shares a
day. (The subsidiary securities market,
the American Stock Exchange, has been
averaging better than 4,000,000 shares a
day and in several recent sessions leaped
over the 6,000,000 mark.)
The recent unprecedented splurge of
speculation in Wall Street had been in-
spired not only by the continuing boom
in the country and the five-year-old bull
market, but by the dramatic performances
of the so-called glamor stocks. This in-
group of shares encompasses companies
making color television sets, airline
operators, and a wide range of electronic
industries, as well as makers of enticing
new products, such as birth-control pills.
Neophytes in the market, looking for
quick profits, have concentrated on the
glamor stocks with profitable results
as their prices spiralled steadily upward.
Naturally, these stocks have also been
in the van of the retreat.
Despite the disquieting surface parallel
with the bull market of the 19205, authori-
ties in Wall Street insist there is no real
possibility of a stockmarket crash climax-
ing this one. People are no longer allowed
to speculate on unlimited credit, as they
did in 1929, and the Securities and Ex-
change Commission set up by President
Roosevelt to “reform” Wall Street is
doing an excellent job of policing the
exchanges and the brokerage houses.
No one in Wall Street has a ready
answer for “what happens next?” but no
one seems seriously worried, either.


JsffiHsSP!!
am
m
>ia
m
I
s?st
m
m
m
R
<££r
m
>;.v
•V'-VV
Ml
m
Vrj.H
m
:S-£
m
m
1
,r>.
»£
SE
?K
Vi t
a»v:i
**ivS
' ■;
1
3te
km
a®
M
■■ y
MM
MW
rj
£BB5
•4*!
jggyj
OLYMPUS-
giant among jets
Chosen for the first supersonic airliner, Concorde
Generates electricity to light cities
Powerplant of tomorrow’s high-speed warships
fdh
YOU COULD call the Bristol
Siddeley Olympus a jet-of-
all-trades.
The RAF chose it for their
Vulcan V-bombers. Concorde, the world’s first
supersonic airliner, will be powered by more
than 50 tons of thrust from four Olympus
turbojets developed in collaboration with
SNECMA of France,
The industrial version of the
Olympus has been ordered in
quantity by electricity supply
authorities to help satisfy the
ever-growing demand for
power.
fdh
Marine Olympus engines have been ordered
by Great Britain, Finland, the Federal German
Republic and Malaysia, and will power the
new generation of high-speed
warships.
fd
Developments such as these
exemplify Bristol Siddeley’s unique con-
tribution to technological progress.
Bristol Siddeley Engines Limited. Executive
Headquarters: Mercury House, 195 Knights*
bridge, London SW7, England.
Bristol Siddeley supply the power lksss


Measure of
capability!
j
•Bgfe :
®BS
««»
SSSfe
wm
****'*.?**&
¥
t .
■rr
m
CAPABILITY in an industry as complex and progressive as ELECTRONICS demands more than a
knowledge of production and distribution. It requires the inspiration of dedicated engineering skills, the
support of world-wide technical resources and precision manufacturing processes and to be maintained
in service by competent know-how. Of such is the substance of AW A—an all-Australian-owned enterprise
and the nation's largest manufacturer of radio communication equipment. AWA not only serves the
nation's needs but has, over the years, built a reputation of dependable performance for equipment here
and abroad.
AWA capability embraces development, manufacture and installation—having supplied two-thirds of
the broadcasting stations in Australasia * over 75 television transmitters in Australia * broadcasting
stations in Pakistan, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Ceylon * telecommunications stations in Egypt,
Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa * television transmitters in Singapore * test equipment in India,
Libya ★ two-way radio-telephones in South Africa, Philippines, Hong Kong, East Africa, Mauritius *
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston,
Wellington, N.Z., London, New York, Kuala Lumpur.
hfd
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio ampli-
fying systems: electronic components: testing
instruments: telephones: programme recordings:
television and broadcast receivers: data trans-
mission systems: and training in radio technology.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Preparing for an invasion
FOR over four years your corres-
pondent, in a very well-behaved
fashion, has been quietly writing
this page. The nom de plume “Bat-
man” was chosen because here was a
name that was dignified. John Batman
was one of the founders of our city
and the name would give the page a
certain authority.
But these have been difficult weeks
for Batman. First there was the
account of John Batman in the new
“Australian Dictionary of Biography—
Volume I.” The biographer, P. L.
Brown, gave him much praise for his
“exceptional talents,” his courage, his
humane consideration for the abori-
gines, but the description of his death
makes sad reading: “Batman gave his
wife £5, and tried to bar her dower.
There can be little doubt that the
natural leader of 1835, to whom she
was closely linked, lost her affection
as a thwarted cripple. She traced his
downfall to excessive exposure; others
to grog and venery. Simpson himself
feared Batman in his cups. But there
was no break with Eliza until the
physical failure, when suggestions of
nasal syphilis developed, and Batman’s
Sydney natives became his only atten-
dants.”
Eliza Batman married again, be-
came Sarah Willoughby “of somewhat
abandoned character,” and was mur-
dered at Geelong on March 31, 1852.
These are Batman facts not normally
included in our gentle history books.
The Batman name received its
second blow just this week and this
your correspondent had been fearing for
some time. Batmania finally reached
Melbourne. Batman, as you must have
heard, is a pop-art darling, a 26-year-
old comic strip, a 1966 TV-sensation, a
muscle - bound supermanic, hooded,
masked, ineptly drawn, all-American
hero. Already the local cinema cir-
cuit has dug up a 20-year-old 15-
episode Batman serial and it is away.
But that’s not all. Alex Tolmer,
managing director of Toltoys, has just
returned from New York. Alex Tolmer
promoted the hula hoop. He is the
man who brought Super Ball to Aus-
tralia. (Remember the Boeing 707 that
arrived last September with a vital
load for Coles, 75,000 super balls?)
* Now he is hoping to do something
about the Batman craze.
He called at the Licensing Corpora-
tion of America, which has a whole floor
of the Time and Life Building. LCA
is an adjunct of the Music Corpora-
tion of America, which owns Batman.
LCA’s chief is Jay Emmett and he
told Alex Tolmer that Batman was
the biggest thing they had ever
handled. He was five times bigger
than Davy Crockett and twice as big
as James Bond. Already they had
collected SU.S.S million this year in
royalties and they expected to collect
$5O million by the year’s end. While
Tolmer was there, Jay Emmett did
a deal with the Borden Milk Co. for
$400,000, just so they could use the
name for Batman ice-cream.
Altogether there have been over 500
Batman lines: “You name it,” said Alex
Tolmer, “they’ve got it. There’s even
Batman shaving cream and a Batman
under-arm deodorant. It’s just un-
believable to me. Anything with a
Batman name on it they’ll buy. The
only thing they’ve missed, is little girls’
lines. With Davy Crockett there used
to be a Davy Crockett teaset. When
you said ‘how come?’ they replied, ‘it
belonged to Davy’s mother.’ Trouble
is Batman’s parents were murdered by
thugs when he was a kid. No mother,
no teaset. But you know, when I got
to New York, I found it impossible to
get a taxi on Wednesday and Thursday
nights between 7.30 and 8 p.m. All
“If your name's Batman, how come
you're not wearing a black hood
and a mask?"
the cab drivers were in bars looking
at Batman.
“So I said to a cabbie ‘Who is this
Batman guy? Is he some kind of a
crook or something?’ They looked
at me as if I was from another planet.
‘Batman’s a good guy, see,’ said this
cabbie. ‘He looks after people’.”
I asked Mr. Tolmer if there had
been any change from the original strip.
He said all sorts of gimmicks had been
introduced. There was the Batmobile
which looked like an A.D. 2000 ex-
perimental dream from General Motors.
Also Batman now had a girlfriend.
“You might remember,” he said, “in
the original strip Batman had a ward,
Robin the Boy Wonder they’re in
every adventure together. They decided
they had to introduce sex or people
would think Batman was a queer.”
Mr. Tolmer said he will shortly be-
gin production on a few lines of Bat-
mania . . . bicycle ornaments, walkie
talkie, Batman signal torch, Batman
lapel badge, Batman face mask, cloak,
kite, hat, water tommy-gun, and Bat-
mobile. He also has a variety of
Batmania that he has brought back
from the U.S., such as the Batman
table lamp, Batman punching bag, very
good for the release of Batmaniacal
feelings, and a whole series of Batman
cards. One says, “Batman is a fink”
and another one which could be a solu-
tion to a most difficult situation, “Bat-
man for Vietnam.”
To make all these items go, Mr.
Tolmer really needs Batman on Aus-
tralian TV. “So far, no Australian
station has definitely taken it. I be-
lieve the Americans are asking a very
stiff price, something like 4000 Aus-
tralian dollars for each half-hour epi-
sode. Oh, they’ll pay it eventually.
British and Japanese TV held back
for a while, but apparently they’re pay-
ing it now.”
So Mr. Tolmer is very happy with
Batman. He says there is nothing new
in this using of a personality to sell
toys. It’s being going on now for
1000 years. Right now the big money
is private-eye gear: Bond and the
Man From U.N.C.L.E. are big, and so
are sales in private-eye gear, cipher
kits, guns equipped with silencers, etc.
Indeed, Mr. Tolmer has a business
which turns over $2 million a year.
He drives a cream 1965 Rolls-Royce.
This he calls his Tolmobile.
So now do you fully appreciate the
problems of this nom de plume Batman.
Would it be fair at this late stage to
change over to his old rival Fawkner?
BATMAN


uu
oPt
&**■&*£
\>
□
s
»
®
m
m
IG
This new money-saving automatic bag sealer developed by 3M Tape Customer Engineering Service proves
you get more than tape from 3M
Cobbity Farm got T.C.E.*
*(Tape Customer Engineering Service it's free)
Ask Cobbity Farm about their new automatic bag sealer. With
“Scotch” Brand Tape sealing tab, bags are-easy to open - easy to
re-seal-fasterby farto handle.3M didit.They invented the “Scotch”
Brand Automatic Bag Sealing Machine - perfect for the job.
That wrapped up Cobbity Farm’s problem. What’s yours? Refer
it to T.C.E. - via your 3M Salesman or “Scotch” Tape Distributor.
Scotch
INDUSTRIAL TAPES
INDUSTRIAL TAPES DIVISION
ITIINNESOTA [TUNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD
Sydney 43.0455; Melbourne 61.3841 ; Adelaide 51.5971 ; Brisbane 5.4131;
Perth 28.4651 ; Hobart 3.3104; Canberra 4.0791 ; Auckland 295.109:
3m
3M 3/2445/66


Malaysia's Other Confrontation
Malaysia's Tunku Abdul Rahman—“He giveth Federation and he taketh away." (British Diplomat, 1965.)
From HARVEY STOCK WIN in Kuala Lumpur
AS Indonesia’s Confrontation with
Malaysia simmers down, the
Other Confrontation grows in inten-
sity. It takes an effort to recall that
less than a year ago Singapore and
Malaysia were one country. Their
separation changed national wrangl-
ing into international friction.
Australia is committed to the
defence of these two countries, both
preoccupied, to a large extent, with
the in-fighting of one of the world’s
more bitter cold wars.
What is the dispute all about? How
deep is the bitterness? What are the
implications, not only for Malaysia
and Singapore, but also for ourselves?
The Bulletin asked Harvey Stockwin,
an Australian journalist in Kuala
Lumpur, to prepare a special report
on the future of Malaysia-Singapore
relations. Stockwin, who has covered
the birth and death of the federation,
wrote his report in the form of
questions and answers.
Q- What is going on up there? Who’s
«“'">"** whom?
* T< • - c „ . • r c - >
A - h ,s ds ! f the leadership of Sin g a P oie -
Peoples Action Party (PAP) and Kuala
, r , ..... . (
' T** °
and Indians) who were previously reason-
ably clear-sighted in their approaches,
inflated themselves with blindness,
making each insensible and insensitive
tbe ‘ Qtbei .
Unlike konfrontasi , Malaysia-Singapore
relations are not—as yet—a subject of
mass emotlon: y° u ( J on ’ t have mobs on
the street shouting “Ganyang Smgapura
m . -‘Crush Kuala Lumpur,” though you
may well hear slightly more sophisticated
’*»<”>«’“ , in J >liva “' “negations with
members of the respective elites. Which
j s on i v another way of saying that.
slowly but surely Malaysia (or, more
accurately Malaya) and Singapore are
more and mor<! l becom,n K fore, K n coun -
tries to one another.
, .
® ro , y ’ W at 1S . no ™ sltuatlon
between the two countries?
A . For a start, as before separation,
day-to-day bickering continues un-
diminished. Each country has its High
Commission and High Commissioner in
i « i • j • i
the other, hut dinerences are aired mainly
through Press statements, speeches, or
Press conferences, not taken through
diplomatic channels first. When Malaysia
placed restrictions on the now of persons
at her end of the Causeway, for example,
. c . J ' a , r .
the Singapore Government hrst heard
about it in their newspapers, like every-
one plsp As a j ways> the washing of dirty
, inen in pub j ic mPans that no i aun dry
gets cleaned.
•., , , .
And there is a lot of cleaning .to be
done. The areas of disagreement get
wider not narrower. The respective poli-
tjca] leaderships show no signs of accept-
ing each other> in good f a i t h, as a reality
an y m ore than they did previously. A
recent Radio Malaysia broadcast called
for Lee Kuan Yew’s overthrow by
‘moderacc” PAP leaders while in
slightly more subtle vein, Radio Singa-
pura broadcasts suggest there can be no
rea l progress under the Alliance Govern-
("'b' chalges most’ .3^hert and
now.
In other words, as before separation,
the disagreements are political in essence.
Xhe di ff er ence now and this makes
matters distinctly worse—is that whereas
before August 9, 1965, there w'as a slow
drift toward even closer economic unity
(than what existed under the British),
• .• .1 11 j •r.
since separation there has been a dnrt
toward economic disunity. The trend


.
■li
The supreme test of a car’s surefooted-
ness is how well it handles in the wet.
We sincerely believe no saloon yet built
has such an unshakeable grip on the
road—wet or dry—as this one. That's
one very good reason why it beat every
touring car in the world in the slush-
soused Monte Carlo Rally. Starting from
the road and working up, the very tyres
of the Rover 2000 are revolutionary.
Known as Squat-Profile Radial Ply tyres,
they produce a “squeegee” effect which
actually transforms wet roads into dry
ones. Try it. Brake a Rover 2000 on a wet
road, then get out and look. You’ll see
twin strips of bone-dry road. Now try
something else. Seek out some slippery
tram tracks (it’s worth a trip to Melbourne
—or San Francisco —to find some). Now
deliberately straddle them with all four
wheels. What happens? Nothing. Not a
thing. You just don’t know they’re there.
(Please don’t try this with an ordinary car.
We mean it.) Something else is playing its
part here: the remarkable De Dion-in-
spired, Rover-developed suspension
WHAT
HANDLES
THE WET
LIKE NOTHING
ON EARTH?
which “Autocar” describes as “the ulti-
mate ... an armchair ride with sports car
safety”. What else do you need in the
wet? Well, naturally, warmth. Rover 2000
gives it to you from a magnificent, two-
speed, fan-boosted heater which Rolls
also have chosen. But in case the
cocoon-like cosiness of the Rover’s
hide-deep, whisper-quiet interior tends
to lull you to sleep, you can adjust per-
sonalised dash vents to direct cooling
draughts of fresh air onto your face.
That’s just one of a score of thoughtful
refinements with which this unique
sports saloon is so lavishly embellished.
To look them all over takes quite a time.
About half an hour is par for the course
—plus another half-hour to sample the
rock-steady ride, the hit-you-in-the-back
acceleration (0-100 in 45 secs, if you’re
game) and the deeply-satisfying stop-
ping power of 4 wheel disc brakes.
A phone call to your Rover dealer’s is all
it takes.
ROVER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
eJ R 1529


tfc
M c Callums
is a
SCOTS
Whisky!”
s
%
<■
*
3*
it never was an
ordinary scotch.
The name is
(0 c GaJlun2’s
The whisky is perfection
A
For epic occasions, McCallum’s
De Luxe Scots Whisky also
available. Distilled, blended
and bottled in Scotland.
MC 75.103
toward separatism economically is far
from weak, and was not envisaged at the
time of legal separation.
There are many ramifications to this,
but one thing is certain. The sustained
high rate of economic growth which both
countries need, and should be desperately
seeking, will simply not be possible if
political whims, fancies, jealousies, and
antipathies are the supreme desiderata.
The past few weeks indicate that Indo-
nesia has learnt the truth of this from
experience, but Malaysia and Singapore
are set fair to make the same mistake.
Q. How deep does the mistrust and
dislike between the two countries go?
A. The unhappiest aspect of the present
situation, with the long term view in
mind, is the growth of national antagonism
be-ween the two States. The British
separated the Straits Settlements and the
Malay States for their convenience but,
largely because British paramountcy was
a consistent factor, few, if any, thought
or felt separately about the different ter-
ritories. The Malays remembered Singa-
pore as having once been part of the
Johore Kingdom many still do.
The Chinese and Indians came and
went as they pleased they would still
like to. The British did not encourage
any “nationalism” in the first place, and
didn’t allow anything to get in the way
as >ir as running the place as one
economic unit, in the second.
There has been, for quite a while now,
some big city condescension, even con-
tempt, in Singapore for their “country
cousins” across the Causeway. Similarly
in Malaya you might find a certain
amount of hostility toward the “big-
smoke,” and in Kuala Lumpur at least
resentment at Singapore's predominant
position.
Historians may be tempted to describe
the PAP-Alliance clash in the 1963-65
period in terms of these latent hostilities
finding political expression but that
would be stretching things too far. Politics
here are largely a complex amalgam of
the communal, the personal, and the
power factors. The Alliance and the PAP
clashed on all three grounds and Malaysia-
Singapore antagonism grew as a result.
As is to be expected, those charged
with the job of arranging interstate re-
lations, the civil servants, are the first
affected. As politics makes such arrange-
ment difficult, so the natural hostilities
grow. Propaganda makes things worse.
More serious, given the emotional situa-
tion, natural opportunism begins to call
an unhappy tune. It has come to the
attention of many observers in Kuala
Lumpur, for example, that one or two
civil servants there are taking a stronger
anti - Singapore line than even their
Ministers would, publicly; after all, they
have to adjust to the winds that blow.
Worst of all, perhaps, are the “pro-
fessional” hate-mongers who seem to
have managed to catch influential ears in
both capitals with their spite or their
embittered memories, or worse.
Q, This “emotionalism” what peg
does it hang on? anti-Communism? Com-
munalism? Is it ideological? Or does it
stem from differing social composition of
the PAP and the Alliance?
A. More than anything else, and per-
haps it is an inevitable part of the
colonial aftermath, the inability to wield
political power dispassionately and with
detachment. This lack could be traced to
many Asian ills. It has often been noted
that Asian policy toward the West some-
times appears based on the conviction that
the independence that has been just won
will be taken away again if the Necolims
get half a chance.
The corollary is also true. Newly
emergent political parties in power tend
to treat any opposition as a threat to be
suppressed, not as an impetus to be
channelled. Detachment is a quality
much admired by Asian religions, con-
spicuously absent among Asian politicians.
(India’s policy of non-alignment, for
example, should be underpinned by a
uniformly objective view of nation states
and their behaviour. Instead it has
foundered, particularly with regard to
China, on a subjective love-hate approach.)
Malaysian politics have always had a
highly personal flavor, but ridiculously so
since the formation of Malaysia.
The PAP’s “trickiness” in general, and
Lee Kuan Yew’s “insincerity” in particu-
lar, are always thrown out to justify
K.L.’s actions. “You don’t understand,”
or some such answer, always greets any-
one trying to suggest that good politicians
are almost always crafty or scheming, that
for anyone charged with responsibility for
a State “sincerity” must be of a different
kind to that which one might hope to
find in personal relationships. One con-
tributory factor in the konfrontasi
wrangle has been Kuala Lumpur’s in-
ability to see Sukarno as anything else
but a mountebank and a predator (a fail-
ing shared with other capitals).
In the confrontation with Singapore
irrational antipathy for Lee Kuan Yew
has reached equally great and contradic-
tory heights.
He has even been lumped with
Sukarno in the Alliance’s Rogue’s Gal-
lery on more than one occasion. On the
one hand it will be claimed that the
people don’t trust him, and on the
other he is treated as if he were going
to obtain power the next minute. In this
sense, Kuala Lumpur is as much a vic-
tim of the Lee Kuan Yew myth as the
“foreign correspondents” and others
they so readily decry.
For down at the root of this “anti-”
emotion, one senses not only the convic-
tion that an “Alliance Malaysia” is better
than a “Malaysian Malaysia,” but also
the fear that any agreement with Kuan
Yew will be to his advantage.
If he is accommodated an inch, goes
the thinking, he will assume a mile. It
would be as beneficial, as it is unlikely,
were the Tunku and his merry men to
assume instead that Lee is but another


Aiding our southern neighbor with
hydro-electric power...
0
0
Fuji Electric
Electrical Power for Progress
Electricity plays an important part in
the modernization and the development of
man’s ability to conquer science for indus-
trial growth. Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. is famous
for design and manufacture of modern
equipment to generate and harness electric-
ity, Nature’s greatest gift to mankind!
Australia’s Industrial Potential
The potential growth and development
of Australia’s industry, and the use of her
natural resources are dependent upon the
ability to place unlimited electrical power
at the disposal of industry. Fuji Electric
is aware of the advances Australia has
made in becoming an industrial leader.
Australia has begun an electrical power
modernization program from which she
will emerge as one of the world’s most
progressive and industrialized nations.
Fuji Electric’s Past Contributions to this
Program
We at Fuji Electric have seen the impact
modern electrical power generating equip-
ment has on Australia’s industrial advances.
An example of our contributions to Aus-
tralia’s modern power for progress program
is the huge 950 KW Pelton type water
turbine generator built by Fuji Electric and
installed at the Murray Power Station as a
part of the Snowy Mountains electrical
power modernization program which is
changing the entire future of industry in
Australia.
Fuji Electric’s Place in Australia’s Indus-
trial Future
We have the most advanced research
laboratories and the highest trained crafts-
men anywhere in the electrical equipment
industry. These assets, coupled with mod-
ern facilities and quality controlled pro-
duction techniques, bring an outstanding
quality to every Fuji Electric product
an excellence which will help increase the
industrial growth and economic structure
of Australia. We offer a variety of electrical
power generating equipment to provide
electricity for an entire city or for the
largest industrial facility ever constructed.
No matter what the requirement, our abun-
dant technological knowledge and ability
can design, develop and construct that
equipment.
Fuji Electric, A World Leader In Its Field
For more than 40 years, Fuji Electric’s
products have established the standard of
excellent electrical equipment in Japan and
the world. The quality performance and
high reliability of Fuji Electric products
is backed by the integrity, experience and
skill of more than 18,000 craftsmen who
make up our working force. In addition
to electrical power generating equipment
we hold a leadership position in the fields
of electronics, nuclear research equipment,
and electrical household appliances de-
signed for modern living. We manufacture
everything electrical from mammoth water
turbine power generator to the tiniest
transistor.
«
(D
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL. OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CO.,LTD. (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


The beauty and mood
of old Indonesia greet you
the moment you enter the
modern, air-conditioned ;
Hotel Indonesie
General Manage
R. Kane Rufi
surrounds you with tee
batik, oriental gardens,
balconies, swimming pools
and penthouse supper
club. A stirring combina-
tion! Call your travel agent
or Inter* Continental
or reservations—
Panamac.
nstgn
'm
HOTEL
)tum
AN INTER?CONTINENTAL HOTEL
One of 31 incomparable Inter*Continentals around the world.
Inter • Continental's new Hotel Bali Beach opens Fall, 1966.
politician yet to prove himself a states-
man, and to remember that the most
inferior party or politician is that which
instinctively feels itself inferior. Lastly,
unless Kuan Yewphobia is seen for what
it is, and checked, then the Alliance lead-
ers won’t be remembered as statesmen
either.
Equally, feelings of Socialist superiority
on the part of the PAP won’t prove their
superiority in the long run. In this con-
text the PAP’s “emotionalism” appears
more ideological than personal. Both are
somewhat concealed behind a facade of
“reasonableness” and rationality. For,
behind the pre-separation “Malaysia
Malaysia” movement, and behind Singa-
pore’s post-separation striving after
“survival,” it is possible to detect an un-
willingness to accept the Alliance as an
inevitable part of the Singapore environ-
ment, as strong as that of the Alliance
in the reverse direction. The PAP lead-
ers have been hailed for their pragmatic
approach to Socialism, but perhaps this
realism has been due more to force of
circumstances than to force of conviction.
Their attitude of disdain, and, worse
for Kuala Lumpur, suggests that they,
too, like their Australian and British
Labor counterparts, have not succeeded
fully or wholeheartedly in blending
Socialism with reality. According to
Socialist dogma, of course, the Alliance
is a “feudalist-capitalist” coalition at
worst, incapable of being “progressive” at
least. There is truth in this, but it would
seem more important to view the Alliance
in its historical and communal context;
thus seen it can be claimed to be more
progressive than might have been expec-
ted, less regressive than other possibilities.
Above all else, the communal com-
promise, which is the Alliance, has
worked so far.
The Socialist PAP with its predomi-
nantly English-educated texture gets a
Westernised view of the Alliance in
Singapore, insufficiently tuned to the
somewhat limited scope of Asian possi-
bility.
One can go to great lengths explain-
ing the emotional antipathy each has for
the other, and then it becomes easy, too
easy, to conclude the present divergen-
cies are inevitable and unalterable, as
was once done in the case of India and
Pakistan. Certainly each side has under-
standable reasons for its view of the
other, but this is not to say that there
are not equally understandable reasons
for not letting differences get out of hand.
Q. All this emphasises the emotional
aspect of present difficulties without making
it clear why it should be so. There must
be some underlying cause.
A. The obvious hypothesis is, of course,
that attitudes are struck, poses taken, to
suit economic interests pushing toward
separation. But, as yet, economic pressure
is centripetal not centrifugal, though this
may change if Malaysia and Singapore
seek autarchy as they show every sign
of doing. Meanwhile the big foreign,
mainly British, businesses and agency
houses continue to operate, and to wish
to operate, on a Pan-Malaysian basis.
Industrialists, foreign or local, want a
common market. Equally big Chinese
business definitely prefers to operate on a
Pan-Malayan or Pan-Malaysia basis, too,
as Mr. Tan Siew Sin, Malaysia’s Finance
Minister, was quickly reminded by some
MCA rubber barons when he was reported
as saying that, in certain contingencies
Malaya could stop her rubber being ex-
ported via Singapore.
This threat was actually used to get
Singapore to “toe the line” over the
barter trade, after it had been “found”
that force in those circumstances was not
the easy answer.
Some argue, and Kuala Lumpur hopes,
that investment in the agricultural sector
(notably in palm oil) will not be affected
by current disputes, forgetting that any
investor first looks for the stability, which,
inter alia, K.L.-Singapore relations are
destroying.
So if there is no economic drive to
justify present antipathies, are the im-
peratives of power driving the two leader-
ships into their present cul-de-sac?
Obviously, a great deal of pre-separation
bitterness sprang from the Alliance “haves”
in power seeking to defend their position
against the PAP inroads. Equally, the
PAP struck attitudes consistent with their
desire to cease being, on a Pan-Malaysian
basis, the power “have-nots.”
The Alliance chose separation as a
means of removing and perhaps destroy-
ing the threat (for good?); the PAP
accepted separation on the basis of “he
who fights and runs away . . Both
calculations are questionable, as we shall
see. However, while it is true that the
PAP is no longer a direct internal threat
to the Alliance (the Alliance cannot be
considered a serious contender for power
in Singapore) both leaderships regard the
other as a potential external threat. Apart
from this being a relatively new develop-
ment, in any case power motives fail to
satisfy as a prime cause of the emotional
impasse, which, after all pre-dates separ-
ation.
Unhappily and regrettably, by process
of elimination, it seems that communal
considerations are at the heart of the
matter. Regrettably, because politics here
are too often, too easily, and too
inaccurately reduced to communal terms.
It is, of course, so much easier for out-
siders to spotlight the seeds of conflict
rather than see the multi-racial flowers
that have bloomed or are blooming. The
essentially political struggle between the
PAP and the Alliance from 1964 onwards
was, for example, written about in terms
of Sino-Malay conflict when it was (and
is) infinitely more complex than that.
Nevertheless, faced with the task of
explaining the fissaporous emotional pulls
which are determining the deteriorating
state of Malaysia-Singapore relations, the
communal motif presents itself as a dis-
tinct plausibility.
For a start, it has to be admitted that




m®
VI,- ; ,
S?r
A
M
V'
; |
'4
ipH?
■V*fs
fa,
A * J f'
P*
<. *=
A**,
: V x s*
/ y\
/; m > •*< \ &?.
mm
ViftrMW M-:■ ■"*■ >
$3
»>**<•
m
A\
Wonderfully Warm pure new wool Trousers
Why shop around for Trousers Fletcher Jones has by far the biggest selection of pure
new wool cloths, colours, patterns and styles in your precise fitting, today and you save
by buying direct from the maker! Warm Worsted Tweeds, De luxe Hopsac Worsteds,
Flannel-finish Melange. Other F. J. Trousers from £5/19/6
Fletcher
JONE S
hfd
Juperb Pure
Merino Celtic
Hopsacs: Paddock
Brown, Fallow
Beige, Cactus
Shoot and Oak.
£8.18.6
h
tusiness Melange
Tough wearing
College Grey
and Rustic
Brown.
£6.19.6
fdh
Classical Wool
Worsteds:
Popular new j
Tweeds, Savile
Row Colours.
£8.13.6
... '
RH
H
Saddle Twist
Mixtures in
Peat Beige and
Shadow Grey,
£5.19.6
PURE NEW WOOL
FLETCHER JONES & STAFF PTY. LTD. Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston and leading centres in New South Wales and Victoria
FJI7I
the predominant streak in the Alliance
Government is Malay, since UMNO is
the main prop, and, in any case, the
Alliance rests on the unspoken assumption
that Chinese economic strength must be
balanced by Malay political power. Equally
the predominant streak in Singapore is
Chinese.
Despite the PAP’s “non-communalism,”
most of the ministers are Chinese (in
background even if some are more Western
than Chinese in their thinking), reflecting
the fact that any party which survives in
Singapore survives because it has the
tacit or wholehearted support of the 1.3
million Chinese (out of 1.8 million).
Secondly, whether it is coincidence or
not, the antipathetic emotions already
described do happen to coincide with the
communal prejudice to be heard or implied
at grass-roots level. Thus the hatred of
Lee Kuan Yew is similar to that animus
felt by so many indebted Malays for the
Chinese shopkeeper or middleman.
They suspect, even know, he is put-
ting one over them all the time, but feel
powerless to do anything about it.
Similarly the suspicion of the PAP, and
of Singapore generally, is the equivalent
to the distrust, the suspicion, the fear the
Malays often feel alike for the Chinese
“good” qualities as well as their “bad.”
Thus, too, the PAP disdain for Kuala
Lumpur finds its counterpart in the com-
mon Chinese disregard for the Malays
as . inept and indolent. The superiority
Singapore feels reflects that “Middle-
Kingdom” complex which still leads many
Chinese to sneer at all other foreigners,
not just Malays.
Thirdly, IF Malaysian-Singapore rela-
tions reflect the state of Sino-Malay rivalry
and intolerance, then, in a way it should
not be all that surprising. Many well-
meaning observers, from as long ago
as 1957, seeing the Alliance as a com-
munal truce, not an eternal peace treaty,
predicted the inevitability of communal
contradictions surfacing at a later date.
Conventionally, it was expected that this
would happen within Malaya on a
domestic issue, such as language in 1967.
In this way, the formation of Malaysia
represented unexpected communal pro-
gress. Lee Kuan Yew’s great mistake was
not allowing more time for Kuala Lumpur
to adjust to the new “truce.”
Kuala Lumpur’s greater mistake was
to imagine separation as a new peace
treaty when, of course, it was a return
to square minus one, or thereabouts. But,
let me stress that there is no ineradicable
reason why Singapore-Malaysia relations
must reflect as well as be influenced
by Sino-Malay relationships.
Q. Assuming these are the underlying
causes, what are the surface manifesta-
tions?
A. Basically, the nature and scope of
economic co-operation or union between
the two States; the nature and scope of
joint defence and foreign policy. Each
accepts that the other’s friendship should
be a central factor in foreign policy, that
the defence and security of Malaysia and
Singapore are indivisible. Whether both
leaderships really do see their economies
as indivisible is less certain. In all three
fields there is a virtual absence of com-
munication, let alone agreement. Each
successive squabble only serves to illus-
trate this and to cause further procrastin-
ation.
For example, separation nominally killed
the Common Market but Malaysia went
ahead anyway and formed a customs union
with Sabah and Sarawak, thus placing
new duties on a wide range of Singapore
exports to the Federation. Singapore
retaliated by erecting tariff walls of her
own.
Separation also “killed” joint planning
for a motor vehicle assembly industry.
Malaysia has gone ahead and announced
a scale of tariff duties to encourage car
assembly in Malaya. Singapore will soon
announce its own separate plans.
Singapore announced the resumption of
barter trade with Indonesia. Malaysia
came within an ace of using force to
prove her contention that this would in-
fringe joint security. A compromise was
worked out finally, but the fundamental
defence issue was not settled.
Then there was the undignified squabble
over the presence of Malaysian soldiers
in Singapore and the absence from
Singapore of military equipment Malaysia
had failed to return. The matter was
settled; the fundamental issue remained
unresolved.
Later Singapore withdrew from the
Joint Defence Council, with each side
assuring everybody better machinery for
joint defence would replace it. This has
not happened.
No doubt encouraged by these displays
of division, Indonesia recognised Singapore.
Despite having had eight months to nullify
any attempts by Indonesia (or any other
larger nation) to divide and rule
Malaysia slapped on Causeway restrictions
—tacit acknowledgement of the two
nations’ failure to work out a unified
approach in their own self-interest.
The free flow of persons across the
Causeway having gone the same way as
the (relatively) free flow of goods, and
the free flow of vehicles it only remains
to be seen if the free flow of the Malayan
dollar follows suit. Singapore’s Finance
Minister has indicated agreement in prin-
ciple has been reached on this vital issue,
which will determine whether tire in-
tegrated Pan-Malaysian banking system
remains one or not. Most banks, and the
economy, can scarce afford two liquidity
ratios in place of one. Neither can the
two countries afford two currencies which
would bring that developing nations’ bug-
bear, foreign exchange shortages or in-
flation, almost certainly in their wake. If
final agreement is reached it will be the
first positive step in a long while, suggest-
ing that both countries will stop short of
suicide.
Q. Why is union on all these matters
so desirable?
A. Bluntly, history, geography, demo-
graphy, trade, economics, law, security,
self-interest, and commonsense. Of
course, just how much these factors unite
and to what extent they divide is
arguable —historical memories, for instance,
are by no means unified. Nonetheless
the oft-heard view, “I just can’t think of
Malaysia and Singapore as two
separate countries,” just about sums
everything up. Were it not for the
geographical accident of the Straits of
Johore it would be as impossible to
separate Singapore from Malaysia as it
would be Sydney from New South Wales
or Melbourne from Victoria.
Q. Supposing there is no accom-
modation between them, what then?
A. If there is no accommodation on
major matters in the short term, then
this will make long-term agreement, let
alone re-merger, most unlikely. Depend-
ing on what form mutual antagonism
takes, there are certain to be serious
economic effects consequent on the fail-
ure to integrate a great port and com-
mercial centre with its natural hinterland.
Malaysia has K.L. as a centre, and Port
Swettenham and Penang as ports.
She can argue that she has substitutes.
This is true, but to the extent that Singa-
pore is “cut-off”, reduplication of exist-
ing facilities will be necessary, and it is
highly questionable whether the cause of
economic growth to satisfy Malaysia’s
rapidly rising population will be served
thereby. It is even more doubtful whether
Malaysia s stated policy objective of
industrialisation (as a means to find the
jobs the vast number of school-leavers
require) can be fulfilled in any meaning-
ful way without Singapore. For this end
a common market is an irreducible
minimum not a debatable maximum.
For Singapore a common market is an
even greater necessity. Even without
separation and confrontation her status
as a trading centre is inadequate as a
long-term means to growth. There is no
other answer except industrialisation,
unless it be the unlikely possibility of
emigration on a large scale.
Q. Are there any advantages in separ-
ation?
A. Apart from eleven million “Malay-
sians” now having two UN votes instead
of one, there are some theoretical advan-
tages. Were Malaysia and Singapore
agreed on a united-but-different approach
toward Indonesia, or any larger nation
with divide and rule tendencies, then
konfrontasi might end sooner rather than
later.
Then there are numerous, advantages to
be had in a “letting-the-left-hand-do-what-
the-right-hand-does-not-want-to” approach.
It is as domestically difficult for Malaysia
to recognise Russia yet, as it would be
internationally embarrassing for Russia
to negotiate with Malaysia. Singapore
does not have, or represent, the same dif-
ficulty, and so can go ahead and sign a
Trade Agreement. It’s some consolation
that Kuala Lumpur did not attack the
agreement on a “you should have con-
sulted us first” basis. At least self-interest
was recognised it is more Malaysian
rubber that Russia will be buying direct
from Singapore.
Q. How does all this affect Aus-
tralia’s attitudes to separation?
A. Any Australian aid to either country
is in part a subsidy for separation. Were
they to get the amount of aid they are
both seeking, it would obviously make
separation much less painful.
This is not the main nor the only
motive for both countries seeking aid.
They would both need it in any case
and, in many ways, deservedly so. Never-


which man
builds
.most
homes
■::
r*
■ A j
E 9 BUILDER
BANKER
Naturally, the Builder . . . but it takes money to build homes.
Builders and home-owners alike know that Australia’s competing
banks are by far the largest institutional lenders for the building
of new homes. In addition to their significant contribution to
home-ownership, banks also financially back builders and build-
ers’ suppliers. And they will continue to help, within the limits
of their available funds. Whenever you see progress in Australia
—chances are it’s backed by a bank.
Every Australian benefits from competition between banks.
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
THE NATIONAL • THE C.B.C. • THE E S. & A.
THE ADELAIDE • THE A.N.Z. • THE WALES • THE C.B.A.
P 2718
theless aid has become a crucial factor
for both since separation.
Malaysia announced her Five-Year Plan
in November and this requires Msl9oo
million in foreign grants and loans plus
a very large amount of (foreign) private
investment. Given more effective mobilisa-
tion of domestic resources, including Sing-
apore's, this amount would be substantially
reduced.
Similarly Singapore’s most significant
departure since separation has been the
demaud for “assured markets” for her
manufactures in Australia and other
developed countries something far in
excess of the GATT waivers Australia
obtained. Again, no doubt developed
countries should accommodate develop-
ing manufactures more freely no doubt
at all. But a better time for this would
have been once a common market with
Malaysia was proving an insufficient
basis for industrialisation
Obviously, then, while both “requests”
are phrased, with varying degrees of
subtle .y, in terms of “saving us from
Communism,” they will also have the
effect of saving both from themselves.
O. Does this mean Australian Aid
should be with strings that pressure
should be brought to bear?
A. Yes, it does. As one Malaysian
Opposition M.P. said, with rare honesty
and candor, let’s hope that Malaysia’s
and Singapore’s friends try to bring both
governments down from their Olympian
heights of stupidity.
Aid without strings? If developing
countries still expect it, then it is about
time they were assisted in the growing-
up process. If developed countries ever
think of giving it (have they ever?) then
they might well remember that what
nations obtain easily they seldom appreci-
ate. The question is “what strings?” and
the trouble has been that the strings
attached have often been selfish, foolish,
or counter-productive. And so Western
countries generally are getting fed-up with
aid-giving at the very time when there
is more need of it.
Nothing has lost more respect for the
West in general and for America,
“democracy” in particular, than the indis-
criminate distribution of aid to States,
not because they are going concerns, but
merely because they say they’re “anti-
Communist.” Nonetheless the Afro-Asians
play along as when Malaysia’s Tun Razak,
brought out the old line “aid now or
we’ll go Communist later.” The London
“Times” editorially ridiculed this but
Western largesse is often equally con-
temptible.
Q. But is not this a real factor? Will
not aid to Malaysia and Singapore help
them against the Communists?
A. Perhaps, but Australia must take
a long and careful look at this one. Too
much divisive drift and the Alliance and
the PAP will never re-emerge indivisible,
but the Malayan Communist Party may.
Another fear which found eloquent
expression around August 9 was that by
cutting out of the Malaysian body politic
the only effective opposition, the PAP,
the Alliance was feeding the fires of


revolutionary as distinct from democratic
protest.
This fear has not diminished since then
as the “democratic” Malaysian opposition
parties have once more settled into their
usual state of disarray. The possibility of
economically caused discontents cannot
be excluded, as indicated already. All that
would be needed would be communal
disaffection, to trigger off a return to the
jungle where between 500-1000
guerillas are already waiting, on the Thai
border, and this Malay-Maphilindo
assertiveness might well provide. Many
informed observers are sceptical about
British or American willingness to fight
a second Emergency here.
According to Mr. Hasluck, Australia will
keep troops here after the end of con-
frontation, but it is worth remembering
that the British had 100,000 troops the
last time. Enough has been said already
to indicate that aid might well help
separatist trends, and that separatist trends
will not help the economic or communal
problems any. Altogether it could be
Singapore children - an uncertain future.
quite a difficult choice does Australia
prefer the anti-Communist bird in the
hand to the regressive economy and un-
stable politics in the bush?
No doubt External Affairs contingency
planners have to contemplate the pos-
sibility of a Communist Malaysia-
Singapore. At least it would be nice to
hear a frank admission that these
“dominoes” have been wobbling a hell of
a lot lately. What happens, for instance,
to Australia’s “commitment” if Malaysian
troops march on Singapore?
Events are questioning and could even
be overtaking Australian policy. Provid-
ing Australia is not really worried about
Malaysians or Singaporeans enjoying real
freedom, providing she believes it is suf-
ficient for her forces to be here no matter
how unstable the situation, providing it
is of no concern that our “support” may
well make the Communists’ task easier,
providing it’s our objective to have friends
but no influence' well, in that case,
there’s no need io question the validity
of our approach.
The whole question is deep and com-
plex. Sufficient here to register a query
and hope to raise a doubt. There is the
possibility that those in Canberra who
feel our first task is to develop closer
ties with Indonesia, and that it is not
in our interest necessarily to finish off
what the British start, will consider them-
selves right. There is the possibility that we
could find ourselves in relation to Malaysia
and Singapore much as the United States
found itself in relation to Diem defend-
ing the indefensible, those who are des-
troying themselves. There is the cer-
tainty that Malaysia-Singapore relations,
amongst other things, should at least call
into question the basic policy.
Q. Isn’t this a too pessimistic view
of the situation? Surely the self-interest
of the two countries will pull them back
from the brink?
A. No journalist was pessimist enough
to prophesy separation in advance, and
subsequent events have more than justified
any pessimistic forebodings felt on
August 9th.
The nub of present pessimism is this
events, attitudes, assertions alike sug-
gest an ominous pattern. On the one
hand it appears that Malaysia is try-
ing to impress on Singapore that, being
so dependent on Malaysia, she must
come to heel on KL’s terms. On the
other, Singapore, anticipating this to be
Malaysia’s stand and recognising her
relatively weaker bargaining position, is
seeking to strengthen her “independence.”
In a nutshell, both sides are head-
ing for a drawn out trial of strength.
The Kuala Lumpur calculation is that
the damage to Malaysia will be peripheral,
the damage to Singapore considerable.
Singapore needs them more than they
need it. South of the Causeway the
belief is that both will be badly damaged
which is more realistic, admittedly
that both need each other.
Central to all this is the fact that
Kuala Lumpur has simply not adjusted it-
self to the reality of an independent
Singapore, while Singapore has not made
the adjustment process any easier by fre-
quently asserting that reality. Kuala
Lumpur nostalgically looks back to the
days when Singapore was still a colony,
and no trouble; Singapore looks for a
hidden motive in every Kuala Lumpur
act even when there is none, and expects
“trouble.”
Q. Is the continuing conflict inevitable?
A. Objectively, nothing is inevitable,
everything, and anything, is possible, in-
cluding a thoroughgoing rapprochement.
In his recent letter to the Tunku, Lee
Kuan Yew stipulated that the effort must
be made, and assessed the greater dif-
ficulty now.
He wrote, “There is now all the disap-
pointment and bitterness of disappoint-
ment of our two years in Malaysia.” Well,
maybe there is “no going back,” but will
bitterness prevent the two countries from
going forward? Would that both sides
regarded separation not as the slamming
of a door but as an opportunity for a
fresh start. Particularly the PAP, which
considers itself “progressive” but seems
to have fallen into the trap of believing its
own propaganda. August 9th did not
signify, necessarily, that a Malaysian
Malaysia had forever given way to a
Malay Malaysia. More than anything
else it marked the end of all inept, im-
patient, badly-timed political campaign.
The ultimate and crucial issue, however,
that has to be settled is the one of
nationalism.
What is nationalism to mean for the
people of what, to any Western-educated
person, should be indissolubly one country?
The 1963 Malaysian Agreement created
the possibility that here, at the confluence
of Asian influences, the three most num-
erous Asian peoples might ultimately be-
come one, in the functional if not the
biological sense of oneness.
That chance has not yet been thrown
away. The Separation Agreement left
unanswered the question as to whether
two nationalisms must replace the hope
of one. However, if it is true, as Lee
says, that the Alliance was hoping in the
wake of separation that discontented
Singapore Malays would go to Malaya,
and discontented Malaysian Chinese to
Singapore, then the question has already
been partially answered, unhappily.
Nevertheless, the next few months,
the next year or two, will decide the
matter. United, Malaysia and Singapore
can easily stand, and grow. Divided they
can just as easily fall.
The issue which the Malaysia-Singapore
“fratricide” leaves suspended is nothing
less than whether the multi-racialism which,
understandably, Australia presently
eschews at home but here, sensibly,
defends, can, should, or will endure.


HONG KONG!
SINGAPORE!
Aip New Zealand's giant new DG-B Jets,
the world's most preferred Jetliners
pies Five Star Jet line
Service. All yours now.
Perfect way to Hong Kong or Singapore. Perfect
first step to stepping around the Orient.
Perfect first step to Europe and London with a
Hong Kong or Singapore stopover
at no extra fare.
Wide choice of daily connections for Europe
and London at both Hong Kong and Singapore.
Book through your Travel Agent or
AIR NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney, 28-2786; Melbourne, 63-2554;
Brisbane, 31-2548; Adelaide, 51-0331;
Canberra, 4-7141.
* •
M£ - - C'
: •• • ••; .
;>5 -
r ' ''
f.
•y- s
- -
AIH NEW WAND
12668
The Five Star Jetiine
In association with Q ANT AS and BO AC.
General Sales Agents in Australia: QANTAS.
AP68.107.855CM


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Melba from the Mulga
By PHILLIP ADAMS
IT’LL happen this year, like last year,
and next year. An endless procession
of crew members for the “Good Ship
Lollipop’’ will put forefingers to dimpled
chins and sing and “tap” their way to
obscurity. For it’s a rare beribboned mop-
pet with sufficient talent, perseverance,
and luck for the demands of stardom. A
rare moppet like June Gough.
She began singing publicly as a demure
five-year-old, warming the cockles of
Broken Hill’s stony heart with “Alice Blue
Gown” and “Little Man, You’ve Had a
Busy Day.” At 15 she lost her amateur
status, when she received two guineas for
guest appearances at the Quartet Club
and Philharmonic Concerts. By then, under
the devoted tutelage of teacher Mrs.
Carick-Morgan, she’d graduated to such
sophisticated offerings as “The Song of
the Smugglers’ Lass” (by Montague
Phillips, recalls June sentimentally) and
“Vilia.” Four years later, coloratura
cadenzas had taken her to Sydney, where
she entered the 1949 Sun Aria. Only half
marks separated the first three place-
getters. June was third, Harold Witlock
was second, and the big money went to
a girl called Joan Sutherland.
But the following year, the £3OO was
June’s. However, study in London would
cost more than that. The miners at
Ballarat might have thrown a few nuggets
at Lola Montez, but Broken Hill was
moved to collect £lOOO for their star.
She'd recently become Mrs. Martin, but
changed her name like Melba in
tribute to her hometown. Which makes
her singularly fortunate not to have been
born in Gundagai or Woolloomooloo.
In London, June joined Sadler’s Wells,
which wasn’t in the habit of promoting
stars. But this was all changed by the
opening night of “The Merry Widow,”
which June remembers as the greatest
night of her life. The success of the
show meant a revival for operetta through-
out England, which was echoed in Aus-
tralia when Garnet Carroll brought her
out for “Merry Widow” and “Orpheus in
the Underworld.”
Here, she was bemused to learn that,
like Rinso and Sir Robert, her name
was a household word, and she was both
embarrassed and touched to discover her-
self the recipient of large waves of public
affection, not only in Broken Hill, but
from Sydney to Adelaide. She had become,
in Gordon’s Wilcock’s ecstatic words, “Aus-
tralia’s Sweetheart of Song,” the role of
Queen still being Gladys Moncrieff’s.
It hadn’t been all plain-sailing. Apart
from the hard work, there’d been eleven
years of unhappy marriage. But she
returned to England after “The Sound of
Music” tour with a new husband young,
intense TV news director Richard Finny.
And ahead of her was “Robert and
Elizabeth,” destined to be scorned by “The
Observer,” approved by “The Times,” and
adored by the public.
Although she spends most of her time
on stage in bed, musically she finds her
role as Elizabeth Barrett, as taxing as
anything she’s done. But after countless
performances she insists that she still
enjoys the role, and reads as much about
the notoriously self-pitying poet as pos-
sible. With a score by Ron Grainer,
Keith Michell as co-star, and various
lesser lights from the Antipodes in sup-
porting roles, the English production was
more than a little Earls Courtish. But
the Finny family are no lovers of London’s
Australian ghetto, and find emigre breast-
beating tiresome.
The Finnys hope for an eighteen-
month run from “Robert and Elizabeth"
in Australia and New Zealand. (A suc-
cessful season seems vital to the fortunes
of the Carrolls. Persistent rumors have
it that the Princess’ Victorian edifice is
being hotly eyed by the car-park
kings.) Then it’s back to London for an-
other Millar/Grainer musical, which, if
successful, will put June into the top
bracket of U.K. money-spinners. Cur-
rently, she admits her earning power is
streater in Australia.
In Melbourne, the Finny entourage
daughter Biddy, her nurse June’s
cousin Jaye and secretary Carol) are
spread about a mansion designed in the
grand, Toorak-Georgian manner and
decorated by a previous owner, Mrs.
Harold Holt. The whole thing is 100
percent genuine 1955 McCall’s, and the
rent must be formidable. But when I
arrived, the Sweetheart of Song was
washing some unglamorous breakfast
dishes, while her husband was inventively
cursing missing car keys.
A compact, bright-eyed, and matter-
of-fact woman (until Richard came along
she was her own manager), June is still
enough of the girl from Broken Hill to
be a romantic. She doesn’t like the nasty
things one can read in newspapers if
one bothered to read newspapers and
prefers the novelettish world of Georgette
Heyer. Her passion is for obscure old
films, and not content with those on the
telly, they often hire 16mm. prints to
screen at home.
Pressed for the hilarious theatrical
anecdote, she remembers John Clements
(now director of the respected Chichester
Festival) having some embarrassing
moments in his role as Wimpole Street’s
most famous father. Once, while strain-
ing to lift the solidly built Miss Barrett
from her bed of pain, he was heard to
make what could be called a particularly
involuntary faux pas, and on another
occasion he transposed two key words in
an exit line and announced his intention
of speaking “family to my privates.”
While regretting the inevitable eroding
of her private life, June obviously enjoys
the success that’s caused it. After what
she described as a long period of nervous
instability, she’s now composed, relaxed,
and doesn’t convey any strong sense of
ambition. Both physically and emotion-
ally she gives an impression of sturdiness.
Which is probably how they bred them
back in Bro’nhill.


BALLET
Bring Back Gorham
Giselle, Pineapple Poll. Australian Ballet
Company. Princess Theatre, Melbourne.
THE new production of “Giselle” last
week only proved one thing, that
the departure of Kathleen Gorham
from the Australian Ballet is a disaster.
There is no dancer on the horizon who
can take her place and the outstanding
abilities of the male complement of the
company will only accentuate the gap
she will leave. Her loss will be all the
more felt because this new “Giselle” has
so many virtues as to make its inclusion
in the regular repertoire inevitable.
Peggy van Praagh has done a superb
job of doctoring the oldest ballet still
surviving. The restitution of some miming
passages causes the action to flow more
smoothly and minor alteration to mime
and choreography are totally in keeping
with the period, while conforming more
closely to ballet conventions of today. I
w'as sorry to lose the traditional fall at
the end of Albrecht’s variation, but the
moronic minority w hich insists on applaud-
ing individual steps as if they are circus
stunts would probably think it accidental.
The new sets and costumes by Ken-
neth Rowell have met with universal
praise. They are, like the other alter-
ations, traditional without being outdated.
I fear for one thing only: Kathleen Gor-
ham can afford to look a poor Cinderella;
there is no danger of her brilliance being
over-shadowed. But what of her suc-
cessors?
The key to the ballet’s rejuvenation
lies, I think, in the re-creation of the major
part of Hilarion. In the hands of Ray
Powell it is once more the pivot around
which the action revolves, a very human
pivot with no trace of black-hearted
villainy. Miss van Praagh must be
congratulated on an inspired piece of
casting. Janet Karin, the lady of the
perfect pas cle bourree, is again a superb
Queen of the Wilis, a queen indeed,
and beautiful to boot! The corps de ballet
is excellent as usual. That leaves us
wdth Garth Welch’s Albrecht. He was
technically cleaner and, I would almost
say, better than Nureyev; it was a truly
faultless performance. But, being an
indifferent actor, he lost the drama of
the part and he still commits the, in this
ballet, unforgivable faux pas of walking
like an ordinary mortal, heel-toe. Here
is one lesson he did not learn from
Nureyev or Helpmann.
“Pineapple Poll” remains one of the
best of all curtain-raisers and the new
revival is first-class on all counts. Elaine
Fifield is excellent in the role she created
at Sadler’s Wells, but she has lost the
piquancy and mischievousness needed to
dominate the action as she should. Instead,
she is completely outshone by Bryan
Lawrence’s Captain Belaye. If I never
see a better performance in a character
ballet in my life, I shall not be dis-
appointed —or surprised. Lawrence
danced superlatively, but also achieved
the exact tongue-in-cheek deadpan char-
acter the part demands. If such a
thing were imaginable, he combined the
mien of Buster Keaton with the technique
of Woizkovsky and the looks of Tony
Curtis. If he could only cook . . .
In smaller parts, Gerard Sibbritt
emerged as yet another outstanding male
dancer in the company (is there no end
to them?) and played Jasper for pathos
rather than laughter; not quite right, I
feel, but an interpretation which is valid.
A minor comedy gem by Rhyl Kennell
as Mrs. Dimple was quite superb, but
the ensemble, as seems usual in this com-
pany’s character ballets, was unnecessarily
ragged. There is a difference between
individualism and sloppiness. Sloppiness
does not describe what went on in the
orchestra pit. Robert Rosen is not a bad
ballet conductor, but he leads a scratch
orchestra. It does.
JOHN CARGHER
Garth Welch as Albrecht in Peggy van Praagh’s new production of “Giselle" for the
Australian Ballet Company.
TELEVISION
In Rafferty
Territory
MIGRANTS from parts of Scotland
and England may arrive in Aus-
tralia with built-in knowledge of
the lingo and some queries, such as, “What
are all the people doing on the streets?”
In the Australian series “Homicide,”
which has been the subject of some
“export action” of their own by Crawford
Productions, the detectives tend to dis-
course like Chips Rafferty, asking, “What
does she do for a crust?” or muttering,
“The caller was the same bloke who put
Lindsay Brown in.” Sometimes they lapse
from the colloquial into language such
as, “He got up and struggled with his
assailant,” even when talking to one
another. The streets are usually seen
deserted, and most people seem to move
about only in cars.
These small quibbles were drawn from
a recent episode written by Phil Freedman,
one of the regular contributors. Most of
the “Homicide” dramas are well written,
directed, and acted, and this was no excep-
tion, despite the additional problems
created by the recent screen death of
one detective, the return from hospital bv
another, and replacement of the demised.
Only John Fegan as the Inspector remains
from the original cast. His offsiders are
now Leonard Teale and Les Dayman,
playing the new sergeant and his
detective, who coped admirably with the
dual action of getting on with their
homicides and sounding out their relations
with one another.
“Homicide” episodes have a pleasing
evenness of quality, although the plots
and characters vary as much as those in
“Z Cars” or the defunct “Naked City.”
Contrasted with other local drama on
TV, any episode can be depended on for
good value. And if you like “official
detective” drama, two consecutive hours
of it are now available on Sunday nights
in Sydney. “Homicide” is followed on
another channel by a gaslight series called
“Casebook of Sergeant York,” from
British television. Its period is that of
the cloak, the hansom cab, and the foun-
dation of the newfangled CID at Scotland
Yard, which is viewed with pessimism by
uniformed men, some of whom think it
unfair for policemen to “go sneaking round
in plainclothes.” So do the criminals
of the day.
In the first episode viewers met Sergeant
York through the eyes of a young assis-
tant assigned to him because a “Sir
Charles” put in a good word. That he
was untrained and a failure at previous
occupations York took in his stride, feel-
ing that this new kind of police work
called for an open mind rather than a
training in normal police procedure. York
was on a case in which an elderly cafe
owner had died of chloroform ingestion,
verdict “by his own hand.” The ser-
geant and his assistant proved that no
suicide could give himself a draft of
chloroform, and from there went on to
find and arrest his murderer.
The series re-creates an era in London
and in crime detection when the detec-
tive’s brain was his only armament. Now
with “Homicide,” “Casebook of Sergeant
York,” and the repeat of “Maigret,”
crime buffs have three hours of good tele-
vision each week, three hours of well-
simulated realism just as exciting in its
way as most of the “spy” series now
stretching our imaginations to the point
of snapping.
FRANK ROBERTS


m*. t >
ifV- v \ '"■
IN \
.-J
Yt %
■STW'S
■ j>
*sja
V< /*C*t
&
WjF
pr
%•*
i
*
4?
i
i
r,
Trains take the tension
out of travel
Even before the journey starts the tensions have gone, dissolved in the
salve of familiars long since associated with rail travel the certainty of
relaxation and comfort, of safety, of a passing parade of scenic interest,
of reaching a destination at a known time. And always, of course, the
freedom from financial strain. Mile for mile, train travel remains the most
economical of them all.
In place of travel tensions there are the travel pleasures the cosiness
of comfy seats from which to view the scenery . . . the ability to catch up
with your reading, sleep . . . the simple pleasure of being able to stretch
your legs while travelling . .•. the meals and refreshments served in buffet
diners, or at your seat. And, on nearly all Australia’s mainline trains, the
superb air-conditioning.
So next time you travel, just don’t go to get there. Live a little as you
travel and enjoy yourself a lot. Next time go by train.
o
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by Authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia


TO LET
NEW
OFFICE SPACE
IMPERIAL ARCADE
• SUITES from 150 sq. ft.
• FULLY CARPETED
• REASONABLE RENTALS
• AIR-CONDITIONED
• EXCELLENT NATURAL LIGHT
All inquiries:
STOCKS & HOLDINGS LIMITED
4th Floor, Imperial Arcade,
83-87 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney
Phone: 2-0373
THEATRE
The Rockin’ ’Fifties
A BUNCH OF RATBAGS. A musical
adapted from William Dick’s novel. Direc-
tion: Wal Cherry and Jon Ewing.
Emerald Hill, Melbourne.
00-BOOPA-DOO-AND-HOW - ARE-
YOO? disc-jockeys were infiltrating
radio. The sentimental Hit Parade
of Crosby and Como had yielded to the
emotionally extrovert Top Ten of Johnnie
Ray and Frankie Laine. The first shops
specialising in groovy teenage clothes had
opened, and the height of delinquent
fashion was basic black scintillating with
lurex, plus fluorescent pink socks and shirt.
The terms bodgie and widgie had just
stopped sounding funny and were becom-
ing a little ominous. Outside the dance
halls, local gangs were “pickin’ the dagoes.”
National Service was still with us, but
Elvis, TV, transistors, and Cinema Scope
wej~e yet to come. Osmosis to Americanism
was so well advanced among teenagers
that even our heritage of indigenous slang
(drongo) w?_s being subverted by impor-
tations (daddio). The early ’fifties were,
without doubt, the years of the real teen-
age revolution. Those of us who began
shaving then know the current acned
protests for what they are: bourgeois
revisionism.
If sociologists want to date our rise to
power, it coincided with the release of a
film called “Blackboard Jungle.” Because
Bill Haley’s theme was not only the
seminal rock-and-roll record but our
“Marseillaise.” We slashed train seats,
stole cars, and brawled to “Rock Around
the Clock.” It set our frustrations, energies
and self-consciousness to music, a
music which combined the wildness of a
Sepik circumcision ceremony with the
brutal rhythm of the Fascists’ goose-step.
To us, the ’6os Rolling Stones sound like
choir boys.
So it seems highly appropriate to have
William Dick’s documentary novel of the
period set to music. In commissioning the
adaptation Emerald Hill has shown both
customary vigor and special intuition.
Inevitably the writers (Peter Pinne and
Don Battye) and their producers have had
to look for stylistic models. One could
hardly go bade to C. J. Dennis, so “The
Fantasticks” and “West Side Story” have
been invoked. From the first seems to
come the compression of plot, with action
depicted and stylised as things remembered.
From the second derives the choreo-
graphic idiom and to a lesser extent the
broad musical approach. Sadly, such
sources do not sit well with the blunt
realism of Mr. Dick’s language.
The theme is not sentimentalised or
softened to the extent of “West Side
Story.” A number of scenes showing
attempted rape, brawling, and parental
brutality are authentically nasty. But
this very authenticity makes songs harder
to integrate. A snatch of “Rock Around
the Clock” is heard from a radio and fits
instantly into place. Whereas the show’s
own songs which vary from Bram-
stonish revue numbers through sentimental
duets to Weill-type talk songs fight
with the narrative style and finally over-
whelm it. Perhaps Dick’s dialogue should
have been scrapped altogether or con-
sistently stylised. Or else the music should
have derived directly from the ’sos Top
Ten.
The story of Terry Cooke’s rise to
gang-leadership and his ultimate self-
realisation in love is told by the hero as
to his psychiatrist. Photographs indicat-
ing the settings of his memories appear
on an overhead screen. Like most of
the direction, this device is efficient and
effective. The small company of eleven
suggest football matches, shopping centre,
stadium shows, etc., with a minimum of
fuss and props, and tackle the singing
and dancing with surprising assurance.
Sid Conabere, John Kendall, Brian
Young, and John Derum do particularly
well.
What Emerald Hill has done with
“Ratbags” is not a failure but a begin-
ning.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Shaw’s Realities
The Apple Cart. Shaw, Ensemble, Sydney.
The Barretts of Wimpole Street, Besier.
Pocket, Sydney.
SHAW’S political extravaganza, first
performed in 1929, is set in London
in the future (actually, about Pow).
The action takes place at Court. At
11 a.m., King Magnus is presented with
an ultimatum by Cabinet, led by the Prime
Minister, Joseph Proteus: either he keeps
his proper place as a constitutional mon-
arch — a figurehead—or else Cabinet re-
signs. By 5 p.m., King Magnus, being
a very clever man with a lifetime of
political experience, has evolved an in-
genious scheme for outwitting the elected
representatives of his people.
In his preface, Shaw defends himself
against the indignant democrats who saw
the play as a defence of royalism and
an attack on democracy. .Not at all,
says Shaw: “ ‘The Apple Cart’ exposes
the unreality of both democracy and
royality as our idealists conceive them.”
The lesson of “The Apple Cart” is
that politics is a matter of clever men
manoeuvring for advantage, but manouvr-
ing within narrow limits, restricted by such
institutions as the Civil Service and
Breakages Limited.
Just as King Magnus uses his daughter
to help charm and subdue Mr. Boanerges,
so Shaw uses the ladies to brighten his
lesson in politics. Barbara Hewitt makes
a brief but delightful appearance as the
Princess Royal. Amanda, the irrepres-
sible Postmistress General, played with
splendid panache by Judy Ferris, adds
color and gaiety to the Cabinet meeting.
She is balanced by the earnest Lysistrata
(Pamela Greenfield), a former school-
mistress who is now the Powermistress
General. Jasmine Greenfield’s dignified,
motherly Queen Jemima copes perfectly
with everything, including the tornado
visit of the overwrought American Am-
bassador (Peter Wagner).
But it is the irresistible Orinthia, the
King’s mistress, who provides the piece de
resistance of the play in a sparkling scene
with King Magnus. Judith Fisher sails
through this in fine style.
“The Apple Cart” does well in the
round since Shaw writes classical comedies
which require only simple settings, lively
direction, and well-spoken dialogue.
Rhoderick Walker’s production for the
most part fulfils these requirements ad-
mirably. Rhoderick Walker himself gives
the production a strong centre by his
playing of King Magnus as a distinguished
figure with perfect manners and a firm
but invisible grip on the practical realities
of every situation. He is well supported
by Gordon Glenwright’s blunt but endear-
ing Boanerges and John Craig’s colorlessly
wily Proteus.
The love story of Elizabeth Barrett
and Robert Browning is both romantic
and melodramatic: the invalid poet lan-
guishing in her sick-room with her devoted
dog, Flush, at her feet, the handsome
poet falling in love with her, her re-
markable recovery, the secret marriage,
the clandestine departure for Italy, and
the unforgiving father who never spoke
to his favorite child again.
Here are all the ingredients for his-
torical romance or romantic history. The
playwright has done his research and the
events of the play are taken from the
love letters and other contemporary
accounts. But the characters remain two-
dimensional.
Norman McVicker has also done his
research for his handsomely mounted and
costumed production. Elizabeth’s room
with its fairy-tale window blind and its
busts has been reconstructed from con-
temporary descriptions. Clarevale Rain
Boots, a pedigree cocker spaniel, is a
handsome Flush. Noella Masson is a
romantic Elizabeth Barrett, beautiful and
spirited. Likewise Ronald Farrow is a
handsome Robert Browning.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


MUSIC
Striving toward Unity
Sydney String Musica Viva. Town
Hall, Sydney.
ABC Subscription Concert. Alfredo Campoli,
Dean Dixon, and the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. Town Hall, Sydney.
THE Sydney String Quartet, this city’s
first fully employed chamber music
ensemble, is still grappling with the
problems of becoming a consistent and
cohesive unit. In a situation where
leadership has been consciously eliminated
(Robert Pikler is the quartet’s “artistic
director” only), satisfactoi'y conclusions
with regard to tempi, interpretation, and
phrasing will emerge only as an outcome
of the group’s rehearsing and performing
together for some time. This recital gave
encouraging evidence that this process is
well on the path toward fruition.
The Beethoven F-minor Quartet, Op.
95, which opened the program, illustrated
the difficulties in balance which still
trouble the group. Pikler and John Painter,
the lower half of the Quartet, are a far
more experienced and “senior” pair than
their opposing violinists, and as the
demands of this darkly brooding score be-
came more acute these advantages allowed
them to dominate the playing. Through-
out the violent Allegro assai third move-
ment, the urging dotted rhythms of the
viola and cello pulsed magnificently
at the expense, unfortunately, of the
slightly less confident combination of
Harry Curby and Robert Ingram.
But these are quibbles, the total im-
pression gained of the performance was
one of exciting and dramatic power. Where
Beethoven painstakingly overcomes his
anger, as in the icy slow movement, the
Quartet managed to project the tension of
this subjugation to a soul-stirring degree.
The agitato finale, by contrast, revealed
through its impassioned outbursts a com-
mon richness and force of tone compar-
able to that which characterised the per-
formance of this work given last year by
the Borodin Quartet.
It would be foolish to altempt even a
brief outline of Bartok’s Sixth and final
string quartet in the space of a short re-
view. Let it suffice to say that the Quartet
No. 6 is perhaps the final statement in the
form if we are to take the late Beethoven
quartets as its genesis.
The members of the Quartet seemed
stimulated by the music they were making,
and the levels of communication here
attained higher planes than at any other
juncture in the program. Not since the
visit of the Hungarian String Quartet has
Bartok been so movingly presented before
an audience which, in part, is still in the
process of assimilating post-Mahler tech-
niques of expression.
VERY little of Sir William Walton’s
music seems worth listening to for
reasons other than education. The
First Symphony, “Facade” Suite, a string-
quartet, the music of Olivier’s “Henry
V,” and perhaps faithful old “Belshaz-
zar” deserve the place they occupy in
most musical English-speaking hearts.
The Concerto for Violin and Orchestra,
composed in the political turmoil of 1939,
is a member of this sorry majority. Wal-
ton employs the sensuous in his orches-
tration as a convenient alternative to con-
structive composition, and it came there-
fore as no surprise to find that both
Campoli and Dixon seemed completely
bored by their task of having to produce
40 minutes of grossly over-decorated
trivia.
DAVID SALTER
Robert Ingram
The Sydney String Quartet's view
from their Conservatorium window.
Harry Curby
Robert Pikler
John Painter


"What DID
I have
on?"
SHORT STORY
by IAN MUDIE
HE ran his fingers down her arm,
then kissed the crease inside her
elbow-joint.
“That’s nice,” she said.
“I wanted to do that ever since that
first time I saw you at the bus stop.”
“I don’t think I even noticed you.”
“I noticed you all right.”
“What did I have on?”
“You had a sort of a rope of imitation
pearls wound round your arm like a sort
of bracelet. Each of them about the size
of a grape. They looked good.”
She half opened her eyes. “You notice
things, don’t you.”
“Oh, I don’t know.” He drr ped his
arm across her. “Guess what J .nought.”
“I never guess. What did you ti ink?”
“I thought ... I thought hc>'' nice
you’d look with nothing else on.”
“You didn’t!”
“I did.”
“Not really?”
“Yes, really.”
“Well, I’m sorry I’m wearing this
watch instead.”
“Instead?”
“Instead of my pearls, of course.”
“Well, I’m not.”
“Why not?”
He kissed her shoulder. “Well . . .”
She shrugged his arm away. “That’s
not much of an answer.”
After that they lay silent for a while.
Just as he was beginning to wonder if
she’d fallen asleep she sat up and looked
at him.
“Other men wouldn’t, would they?”
“Wouldn’t what?”
“Wouldn’t think things like that.”
“What things?”
“Things like . . . like you thought at
the bus stop.”
He stretched up and pulled her down
to him. “They wouldn’t be men if they
didn’t . . . especially with someone as
lovely as you.”
She pushed away from him, her hands
slipping a little on his chest. “No, seri-
ously . . . they wouldn’t think anything
like that, would they?”
“Of course. They wouldn’t be men
if they didn’t.”
“But why?”
“Well, because looking at you would
make them think things like that, of
course.”
“Not all men, surely?”
“Oh, I don’t know about all. But
plenty would.”
“They wouldn’t really, would they?”
“Well, you can’t blame them.”
“The dirty-minded things . . .”
Just as he was going to reach across for
his cigarettes, she spoke again. “Colin?”
“Yes?”
“Do you think things like that about
other girls, too?”
“Oh . . . well ... I used to. I didn’t
know you then. Not like this, anyway. I
won’t think about them like that now.
Not after this, anyway.”
“What difference will this make?”
“Well, nothing like this ever happened
to me before.”
“You can’t expect me to believe that.
You were pretty quick at knowing what
to do.”
“Oh, well, a bloke hears things. You
know, the chaps . .
“I tell you, I don’t believe you.”
“Well, it’s true. Never before.”
“I just don’t believe you. But, even
so, you can’t tell me it would make any
difference to someone like you.”
“But if you could realise how I feel
about you . . .”
“No, don’t touch me . . . Don’t you
touch me, I said!” She reached down and
dragged the sheet up over her. “And that
means never again. Never . . . again!”
“But, darling . . .”
“No, I mean it. Get away! You men
. . .” She rolled over so that her back
was toward him. “And to think you’re all
the same.”
“Oh, I wouldn’t say that.”
“But you said it. You said they wouldn’t
be men if they didn’t.”
He stared at her. The sheet clung
closely to the curve of her buttocks. He
almost began to regret having brought her
to his flat.
For ten minutes she said nothing. He
lay there, longing for a smoke, afraid that
if he reached across her she would grow
even more annoyed.
“Colin?”
“Yes?”
“What else?”
“How do you mean, what else?”
“What else was I wearing, of course.
Don’t be dense.”
“Er . . . when I saw you at the bus
stop? Well, you were wearing those pearls


WHY LEARNING ANOTHER LANGUAGE
HAS SUDDENLY BECOME EASIER-
AND CHEAPER
Years a go, the best way to learn a language was to travel to the
foreign country, live in it, and absorb the atmosphere. Unfortu-
nately, in those days the ship took weeks to' arrive there.
Nowadays there are fast jets to speed you. Unfortunately, they
are expensive.
There is, however, a far easier and cheaper method of learning
a language; just as effective as living in the country, and possible
without even leaving the comfort of your chair.
It’s called LINGUAPHONE, and is now the accepted way to
learn a language easily, quickly, and comfortably. It consists of a
number of extended-play records (or tapes) and text books recorded
by skilled foreign tutors. As soon as you listen to the first record
and follow the words in the accompanying illustrated book you
suddenly realise how simple it will be to master the language by
this method.
This is no exaggeration, as unsolicited testimonials on our files
can testify. Schools, Colleges, and Universities all over the world
use LINGUAPHONE. “Average” people, “Smart” people, and chil-
dren over one million of them now have all learned a language
by LINGUAPHONE.
LINGUAPHONE is so confident of what it can do for you that
it makes a unique offer:— You can have a complete course in your
home for seven days trial. No deposit is required. There are no
strings to this genuine offer which allows you to play the records
as often as you wish during that time. Ninety-eight percent of
people who test LINGUAPHONE this way continue with the course.
Why not join them?
Fill in the coupon below for a free illustrated booklet giving
you a complete description of LINGUAPHONE and a form to allow
you to test LINGUAPHONE for a week. No obligation is entailed.
—< CUP THIS NOW )
LINGUAPHONE INSTITUTE PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY: Dymock's Book Arcade, 424 George Street. Phone 25-3597.
MELBOURNE: Allan's Music, 276 Collins Street. Phone 63-1928.
Please send me your illustrated descriptive booklet about Linguaphone and details of your
weelc's free trial offer.
I am especially interested in:
French □ German □ Italian □ Spanish Q]
or
(37 languages available)
NAME
ADDRESS
B
“You said that before. Is that all you
remember?”
“Er . .
“Is that all?”
u Er 55
“Did I have a hat?”
“I’m not sure.”
“Have you ever seen me wear a hat
on the bus?”
“I don’t think I have.”
“Well, I do, sometimes.”
“Oh.”
“A dress or a costume?”
“What?”
“You don’t notice much, do you!”
“Oh, I don’t know.”
“And if you didn’t notice what I was
wearing it means you couldn’t have thought
much of me. Except nasty things.”
“I noticed the pearls.”
“That’s all you care about: what women
would look like without any clothes. That’s
obvious.”
“I don’t think that’s true.”
“Well, otherwise you would have noticed
my dress.”
“Oh, hang on, that’s not fair.”
“Fair! What right have you to think
things like that about women? It’s . . .
it’s indecent. I’m sure there’s something in
the Bible about people like you.”
Still with her back to him, she slid off
the bed, threw the sheet across him with-
out looking at him, and, crouching down,
began a sort of Gontortionist-act of getting
into her scattered clothes, while he carefully
stared at the ceiling.
“I’m going,” she grunted, so that he
guessed what she was dragging on. “This
whole rotten, sordid, stinking business . . .
You men!”
When she had finished dressing she slid
the palms of her hands over the creases
in her skirt. Then she turned to him.
“And to think of it, you’ve got the
nerve to lie there smoking and . . . and
looking at me.”
He looked away again. “Sorry.”
“Sorry nothing! Looking at me just like
you look at other girls.”
“That’s not true.”
“Of course it’s true.”
He reached over, balanced his cigarette
on the edge of the chair, and sat up. “Listen
35
“Listen to you, indeed! I shouldn’t have
listened to you in the first place. And then
bringing me here and doing this to me.
And you haven’t known me a month.”
“But, listen . . .”
She turned back from the door. “Listen
to you! I hope I never hear your voice
again.” She would have said more, but she
caught sight of herself in the mirror. She
pushed a few strands of hair into place.
Then she took a tissue from her bag and
scrubbed at her mouth; then put fresh lip-
stick on. Then she moved toward the door
again. “And it isn’t fair of you to call my
pearls imitation. It makes them sound . . .
it makes them sound cheap. And if you
knew how much I paid for them . . .”
After the door had slammed he still
lay smoking. “Strewth,” he said to his ciga-
rette. “Women!”
Then he swung his feet to the floor, stood
up, stretched, and began to whistle.


4
m
The
CATHOLIC
ENQUIRY
CENTRE
... offers a free correspon-
dence course of 20 weekly
lessons on the Catholic
Faith to any non-Catholic
who requests it.
the sole purpose of this offer
is to give interested enquirers an
easy and confidential way of
learning what Catholics believe,
and why. Post the coupon to the
Catholic Enquiry Centre for the
brochure on this
FREE
Correspondence Course
The lessons are easy to read
and take only 20 minutes to
study each week. During the
course you may write as often
as you wish, and have all your
questions answered by personal
letter, in strict confidence.
There is absolutely no obli-
gation of any kind. We cannot
give you our Faith—only God
can do that —but we can give
you the facts about the Faith and
remove misunderstandings.
Post coupon for
brochure
All correspondence is treated
as strictly confidential and is
posted in plain sealed envelopes.
We guarantee that no represen-
tative of ours will call.
-FREE and IN CONFIDENCE ■
Please send your brochure
in plain, sealed envelope.
8U32
Mr./Mrs./Miss
(Block letters, please)
Address
State
CATHOLIC ENQUIRY
CENTRE
P.O. Box 63, Maroubra, N.S.W.
BOOKS
The Danger from China
by T. B. MILLAR
Australian Policies and Attitudes Toward
China. Henry S. Albinski. Princeton.
$13.75.
CAREFULLY worded but almost totally
unconvincing euphemisms have
long been Government practice
when discussing Australia’s trade with
Communist China. The Labor Opposition,
while drawing attention to this, has yet
to indicate that it would vary the policy
either of trade or deception if it
came to power.
We are repeatedly assured that this
trade is carried out by private .enterprise,
that none of it is in strategic materials,
and that the Government has no control
over it. The Prime Minister brought
out a new gambit in Saigon the other
day: Our China trade enables us to give
greater economic and military aid to
South-east Asia. There is some logic in
this, of course, but decisions on the two
issues are almost totally unrelated.
In his account of Australian thought,
emotion, and policies toward China since
1945, Dr. Albinski, who is an Associate
Professor of Political Science at Penn-
sylvania State University, spends almost
100 pages discussing trade and the
Government’s part in it. He quotes from
the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act, No.
83 of 1963, with regard to the Australian
Wheat Board: “The Minister may give
directions to the Board concerning the
performance of its functions and the exer-
cise of its powers, and the Board shall
comply with those directions.” This power
must apply to external as well as internal
operations. He reminds us that we sold
a second-hand rolling mill to China as
early as 1957, and, as is more generally
known, have continued selling iron and
steel in moderate quantities ever since.
The British Board of Trade publishes
a list of goods whose export to China is
categorically forbidden. The Australian
Government keeps its full list confidential.
One wonders why.
Even so, strategic materials are only a
small fraction of our total exports to
China, the major items being wheat and
(to a lesser extent) wool. Dr. Albinski
is more confident than many Australians
that the Government would be able to
resist all pressure exerted through this
trade. And he is incorrect in accepting
News Weekly’s report that when the
Chinese Government sent telegrams to Aus-
tralian trading firms seeking support over
Chinese journalists detained in Brazil, the
firms “had done nothing but send courtesy
replies.” Many of them, in fact, duly
contacted the Government. Whether the
Government could do or did anything
is another matter. But Dr. Albinski is
right in putting a situation such as this
in its proper international context, as
one among many pressures constantly be-
ing received from numerous countries,
“great and powerful friends” included.
Most of the material for this book was
gathered during a year which Dr.
Albinski spent as a Visiting Fellow in
the Department of International Relations
at the Australian National University. It
is good to see such hospitality rewarded
by a valuable work on Australian foreign
policy. Bread cast upon the academic
waters is rarely so well returned.
With indefatigable industry, he sought
out every relevant newspaper report,
periodical article, and Hansard statement;
interviewed every possible Minister, ex-
Minister, official, businessman, and
academic. He has put together an exhaus-
tive and definitive work on the subject.
It would be carping to say that some of
his material is only slightly related to the
main theme, especially since in such
cases he frequently throws new light or
perspective on old events.
During almost the whole period
covered by the book, a Liberal-Country
Party coalition was in power. Dr. Albinski
shows how in many ways its attitudes
toward China were not so very different
from the Labor Party which preceded
it as the Government and followed it in
Opposition. On security problems, he
analyses the Government’s policies fairly
The Way Home
The way home brought us out beyond
The rough-cast pompous houses and
The tired ones which straggled on
The fringe, and lay about in gardens
Window high in weeds; past those
Set back and out of reach, their pulse
Dried out and crystallised like quartz
That levelled out the echoing
And unused drives, set white between
The dark and ordered shrubberies;
And watching from the homely road
We’d whisper stories as we passed,
Then quicken up unconsciously
Towards the open fields, the ponds
Grown up in arrow-straight. green quills
Of rushes where we’d stay till far
Too late manoeuvring our jars
For frogs, the puffy tadpoles and
The floating eggs pricked out with small
Neat trigger shapes, sprung back for life.
To keep the water steady on
The last long hill to home meant watching
The topography within
The corrugated road, whose lakes,
Plateaus and mountain ridges we
Could name were seasoned travellers
Until we reached the gate, stretched for
The door and stepped up children sized
And full of secret knowledge to
The broad and bosom-soft warm room.
LOLA JACKSON


%
m
\
LOOK
THE ARD 52
CROSSBAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
Features: Any extension can be nominated as ‘‘operator"
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other • Outside calls dialled direct by
extension • Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
BUMaas
'3kMl
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD, FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
QLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 219331
and at length, although it is not as easy
to distil out of his narrative, as it is out
of Government statements, the reasoning
behind our fear of the People’s Republic.
Of Labor attitudes he writes: “The
interested spectator may be excused if
he is puzzled by just what Labor wants
and how it hopes to accomplish it.” One
can only add, “Not only the interested
spectator!”
There is an interesting chapter on the
“movement of people” to China. Despite
some exceptions, the Liberal Government
has in fact been far more liberal than
is generally allowed. Readers may be as
surprised as I was to find that somewhere
near a thousand Australians have visited
mainland China in recent years.
Although breezily written, this is not
a book to buy for reading in the train
after a heavy day at the office. At the
absurd price of $13.75, the publishers
presumably do not intend it for such a
fate. But it is a book for every serious
library, and for every person who writes
or speaks on our relations with the world’s
most populous, most potentially dangerous
nation.
The End of Europe’s Glory
by GEOFFREY SCOTT
The Proud Tower. Barbara Tuchman.
Hamish Hamilton. $5.30.
The Enigma of the Age. Cynthia Cox.
Longmans. $3.15.
LIKE a band of scorched earth the
Great War divides two epochs in
Western history. In the scarred
ground, along with the millions of dead,
lie the hopes and illusions of the 19th
century. Rich, various, confident, corrupt,
and splendid old Europe the Europe
of Kings and Kaisers, of plumes and
panache, of Brahms, and Diaghilev and
Boulter’s Lock and seasons at “Monte,”
of Jaures’ and Keir Hardie’s visions of
the coming universal brotherhood of man
all perished in the holocaust leaving
only the bitter ashes of disillusion and
fear.
The period before the Great War was
the Belle Epoque, a time of stability,
accepted standards and innocent assur-
ance about the future. Such, at least, is
the traditional view, and it is this view
that Barbara Tuchman, armed at all points
with the evidence of omnivorous reading
(her bibliography fills 45 pages), sets out
if not to demolish at least to modify
very substantially.
This is a noble banquet of a book, the
most fascinating, authoritative, and per-
suasive general picture of the prewar
world that has yet appeared. The author’s
canvas is huge and her characters innum-
erable, but she has the gift of selection
of the key figure, the seminal idea and
pertinent quotation so that the trees never
obscure the solid wood of her central
thesis. Some of her conclusions may be
arguable I think, for instance, that
she overestimates the influence of the
United States in world affairs before
1914 and underestimates the pervasive
toughness of the English ruling class which,
far from collapsing beneath the onslaughts
of Lloyd George, survived, buttressed by
Keynes’s “hardfaced businessmen,” until
the profounder social revolution of World
War 11.
However, this is by the way. Barbara
Tuchman reminds us forcibly that doubt
and fear, protest, ferment, misery, and
violence all existed in full measure in the
uneasy prewar generation. “We have
been misled by people of the time who,
looking back across the gulf of war,
see the earlier half of their lives misted
over by a lovely sunset haze of peace and
security,” she says. But “a phenomenon
of such malignance as the Great War
does not come out of a Golden Age.”
Power politics are not her subject. The
oft-chronicled diplomatic origins of the
Great War she dismisses as “only the
fever chart of the patient; they do not
tell us what caused the fever.” Instead
she has set out to seek the war’s deeper
causes of which the intrigues and fan-
faronades were only the surface bubbles.
She quotes, apparently with approval,
Stefan Zweig’s belief that the outbreak
of war had little to do with ideas or
national frontiers. It was the logical end
to a century of industrial and scientific
revolutions. The society that entered the
20th century was not decaying but burst-
ing with new tensions and accumulated
energies that found violent release in
war.
Nowhere was the outward appearance
of stability so impressive as in England.
At the head of the social pyramid were
the Edwardian patricians, Tory and
Liberal alike, the last ruling aristocracy in
Europe, assuming the burdens of govern-
ment as a natural right and apparently as
firmly entrenched as in the days of
Walpole. Yet both the great parties were
fissured by new ideas and personalities.
With the disappearance of Lord Salis-
bury’s massive conservatism the way into
the Tory front ranks was cleared for
thrusting parvenus like Joe Chamberlain
and F. E. Smith and philosophic doubters
like Balfour. Bitter differences over Irish
Home Rule, the Boer War, and the
Imperialist dogmas generally had torn
the Liberals apart. Their only hope —•
as another pushing newcomer, Lloyd
George, clearly saw was to capture
the solid mass of the working-class vote.
But the submerged millions no longer
followed the Liberals trustingly as they
had in Gladstone’s time. Trade unions
had made them conscious of their
strength; the dockers’, miners’, and rail-
waymen’s strikes stirred class rancor un-
salved by Lloyd George’s radical Budgets
and the clipping of the archaic veto powers
of the House of Lords. The rise of the


Labor Party spelt the doom of 19th-
century political Liberalism.
And, meanwhile, the very foundations
of Britain’s prosperity were being sucked
away. She was no longer the workshop
of the world, for German and American
industry was expanding faster and eat-
ing into her markets. While the rich
lived in dazzling luxury and leisure the
purchasing power of wages was falling
and human material deteriorating. (The
minimum height for army recruits was
lowered by three inches between 1880 and
1914.) Every thinking man felt vaguely
that the crust was cracking and that the
20th century would unchain new forces
undreamt of in the past. Shaw and the
Fabians saw a solution in the steady
advance of public ownership, Wells in a
benevolent scientific dictatorship, Keir
Hardie in the creation of a Socialist
society by co-operation among the inter-
national working class.
It was on Germany that the Socialists
pinned their main hopes. The German
proletariat was the best educated and best
organised in the world. The radical parties
counted their votes in millions and sent
impressive numbers of members to the
Reichstag. Yet when the test came they
were Germans first and Socialists a long
way after. The reality of power lay
not in the futile Reichstag debates but
in the Kaiser and his diplomatic and
military advisers, in the industrial barons
and the mass of a-political, prosperous,
beer-drinking bourgeoisie. However, as
Barbara Tuchman shows, other forces were
fermenting in German society Richard
Strauss cracking the mould of musical
romanticism, Wedekind plumbing the
depths of sadism and terror in the
Teutonic heart, and a creeping fear that
the Kaiser’s sabre-rattling might lead to
world chaos instead of a world Pax
Germanica.
Across the Atlantic the beacon of simple,
self-contained Jeffersonian democracy
a beacon that had lured millions of
oppressed and unhappy to the New World
was dimming. Admiral Mahan was
teaching America the value of sea power.
Heady from their easy triumph over
Spain, Americans were reaching out for
empire, with Teddy Roosevelt marching
in the van. At home the murderous
Homestead and Pullman strikes showed
that class war was not just a phenomenon
of old Europe. As Barbara Tuchman
convincingly demonstrates, the prewar
world was not quite the paradise of peace
and plenty that some myth-making social
historians would have us believe.
It is a far cry from Barbara Tuch-
man’s glowing canvas to the bizarre
miniature of Cynthia Cox’s life of the
Chevalier d’Eon, history’s most celebrated
transvestite.
Man? Woman? Hermaphrodite? For
years the gamblers of Pall Mall and St.
James’s Street laid bets on the sex of
the debonair little French exile whose
activities kept London in a ferment of
delicious speculation. Even when the
Chevalier publicly announced himself a
woman and took to permanently wearing
satin flounces and towering powdered
headdresses, no one could be quite sure.
His face was smooth and plump, his
hands as tiny as a girl’s. Yet when he
rolled up his lacy sleeves to give a demon-
stration of swordmanship before the Prince
of Wales in Carlton House he displayed
a forearm “more suited to wield a cudgel
than a fan.”
Not until the Chevalier died in debt-
ridden loneliness in 1810 was the mystery
finally solved. In the presence of the
Earl of Yarborough, Sir Sidney Smith
and other notables, surgeon Thomas Cope-
land stripped the nightgown from the
pathetic little corpse. Next day “The
Times” published Copeland’s announce-
ment: “I hereby certify that I have in-
spected and dissected the body of the
Chevalier d’Eon and have found the
male organs in every respect perfectly
formed.” Cynthia Cox has written a lively,
readable, and well-documented biography
about a very curious character, and it
is unlikely that much more remains to
be said about the Chevalier d’Eon.
The True Face of Indonesia
by BRUCE GRANT
Five Journeys From Jakarta. Maslyn Wil-
liams. Collins. $4.50.
A CHARMING, useful, and perhaps
important book. “People are
people, strange and marvellous, and
spiritually beyond the reach of politics
and journalism,” Mr. Williams writes. He
was clearly disappointed in political
Indonesia, but he never allows this to
affect his delight in the Indonesians —they
are many —with whom he comes to terms.
He is too serious a writer to avoid politics
and the book’s sombre mood might well
come from his sense of the suffering which
Indonesians have undergone in the highly
political circumstances of the past ten
years. But he avoids the paraphernalia
of power in Indonesia and concerns him-
self rather with the texture of life. I
would quarrel sometimes with his stric-
tures on those, especially foreign corres-
pondents, who do concern themselves with
Jakarta politics rather than Indonesian
life, but that is beside the point. He has
written a book about Indonesia which,
while it offers no fresh insight, is so
graceful and sensible that it is unique in
the growing literature on this controversial
country.
The charm of the book is not just the
writing, which is nicely controlled and
occasionally arresting. It is that Mr.
Williams is a pilgrim rather than a
traveller or an observer. He is discovering
himself while he discovers Indonesia. He
is not an emotional or dramatic person,
however, and does not get in the way.
He quietly questions himself, wondering
what Western civilisation means as he
sets about describing the values and habits
of people whose culture seems indifferent
and often deliberately opposed to his own.
The result is a flexible, compassionate
study, full of human detail, delicate humor,
and reserved judgment. The hard-line and
soft-line advocates in Australia will read
it, one imagines, with equal impatience
and it is therefore worth remarking that
Mr. Williams is, of course, an Australian.
The five journeys take him to Sulawesi
(formerly Celebes), Bali, Sumatra, Java,
and West Irian. He travels by road and
rail, as well as by air, and stays privately
in army quarters and in some decrepit
hotels as well as the regular tourist places.
He seems to have been assisted generously
by Government agencies, which is the
normal treatment of foreign writers; some
of his guides provide good material.
He does nothing unusual or exciting,
nor is he long enough in one place to
settle down and establish himself in a
community. Most of the time he is on the
move, striking up conversations with
strangers or interviewing officials. But
“Five Journeys From Jakarta” lacks the
glacial excitement of the journalistic travel
book, because its author is an artist. Mr.
Williams used to be a film director and
he has a keen eye. He also has a good
ear. He hears water running and the sounds
of birds, bells, and the call of a muezzin,
snatches of familiar music, and he hears
them within an outline of trees and
houses, the sky and people, especially the
faces of people. Floating about in this
cinematic Indonesia are also the smells.
The author has a fastidious nose and Is
fascinated with the odors of food and
effluent, both abundant in Indonesia. He
can describe the slime on a bathroom
floor with just the right balance of horror
and awe.
The ragged edge of Indonesian life is
here. A former army officer turned busi-
nessman, grown righ on army contracts
since he left the service, carries about on
his journeys a tape-recording of himself
shouting orders (in Japanese, because they
sound more “aggressive” than in English,
Dutch, or Indonesian) against a back-
ground of regimental music. The author
visits a urea factory in Sumatra, where
3000 tons of fertiliser are held up because
there is no string to tie the bags. He
brings an official letter from Jakarta
authorising a visit to textile factories in
Bandung.
He is received in a room of 57 desks,
43 of them empty. The man who re-
ceives him is playing chess; he refuses at
first to authorise the author’s visit, on
the ground that it has been arranged by
a political enemy who knows that Mr.
Williams will inevitably write that the
factories are inefficient and the chess-
player will be blamed. Despite the variety
of this motley, it is restless rather than
active, suggesting drift and ennui rather
than vitality.
Although not directly concerned with
politics, this is necessarily a political book.
As an Australian wandering about at the
height of the “Crush Malaysia” campaign,
Mr. Williams could not —and obviously
did not want to —escape argument. He
defends Australian policy stoutly enough
on his five journeys but he hasn’t the
stamina to cope with the newspeak of


AUSTRALIAN
POLITICS
a reader
Edited by
Henry Mayer
The broadest, the liveliest and in
many ways the most interesting
anthology on Australian politics,
a book both to create enthus-
iasm in the student and inform
the general reader.
Hardcover $5.50
Paperback $3.50
F- W- CHESHIRE
Melbourne Canberra Sydney
£5
"I drink to the general joy of the
whole table."
(Shakespeare)
An expansive fellow, William. And generous.
Like those who treat their guests to
v VAT 69 ,
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY A
the modern Indonesian ideologue. He
conveys, however, the essence of Indo-
nesian nationalism well in his reports of
these confrontations and conversations. He
is impressed with the fluency and flexi-
bility of Indonesians and, especially when
he is among the Javanese, the concepts
and rock-bottom beliefs he brought with
him on his pilgrimage begin to dissolve
and wash away. In central Java, he tries to
understand the alignment of forces, especi-
ally the Communists, the Army, and the
Muslims, and concludes: “The Communist,
the colonel, and the pious Moslem are
likely to be one and the same man.” Out
of this comes a considerable respect for
President Sukarno, as a leader of unusual
flexibility, even in Indonesia.
Events since September 30 last year,
which Mr. Williams manages to mention
briefly, have severely qualified the unique-
ness of the “Indonesian identity.” But
this book is too broadly based and engaged
to be affected by a turn of events. In
fact, much useful material about the in-
creasing activity of the Communists last
year is included and there is one per-
ceptive chapter from Palembang, in
Sumatra, in which the importance of the
oil industry to both the Indonesian Com-
munists and Western capitalism is neatly
underscored. Altogether, this rather long
and (for the general reader) unusually
introspective book is an excellent introduc-
tion to the Indonesia which so often cap-
tures the headlines.
Adrift in Soho
by R. M. WILDING
Memoirs of the Forties. J. Maclaren-Ross.
Alan Ross. $3.15.
WE never actually see the critic and
journalist Julian Maclaren-Ross
writing anything in his memoirs.
In fact, only once do we see anyone
actually writing anything —and then it is
the travel writer Peter Brooke (alias
Anthony Carson). Brooke had just read
some of Maclaren-Ross’s stories: “It gave
me an idea’. No reason why I shouldn’t do
the same, I could easily turn out that sort
of thing . .. . ” So he bought several dark
blue duplicate order books and wrote in
them every afternoon in London’s Scala
Restaurant, the newly born kittens of the
restaurant cat swinging from his shoulders
and clinging round his neck. Maclaren-
Ross tried to get them published, but tired
of waiting for editorial decisions, Brooke
“embarked on a round of personal visits
to ginger editors up.” The stories came
back en bloc.
The incident is typical of Mr. Maclaren-
Ross’s literary “Memoirs”; they are full
of improvised schemes, slap-dash brief
enthusiasms, the dilatoriness of publishers
and editors, rejection. The act of writing
is not important; it is the literary life, the
drinking, the quarrels, the unpaid bills,
the whole pursuit of bohemianism that
leaves little time to spare for writing.
And Maclaren-Ross evokes it with a bril-
liant charm and authenticity; it seems so
appealing to spend all evening at the
Wheatsheaf in Rathbone Place. Maclaren-
Ross had his own corner in the pub “hav-
ing displaced from the strategic position
a Central European sports writer on a
daily paper by the simple expedient of
arriving each evening earlier than he was
able to.” If he couldn’t get there on time,
he arranged for someone else to hold the
corner.
The dead-pan documentary reportage
that Maclaren-Ross adopts in his
“Memoirs” provides the ideal tone; every-
thing is described at the same pitch, a
seeming naivety and innocence that
enables him to suggest both the bohemian
attitude of “everything goes,” everything’s
equally interesting and significant; and to
display the weirdest foibles and eccen-
tricities without a .flicker of moral com-
ment.
The terrible authenticity of it all is
assured by the accounts of editors and
publishers. The book opens with an
appointment to see Jonathan Cape.
Maclaren-Ross rushes from his training
course as a vacuum-cleaner salesman up to
London; but Cape’s “opening sentence was
not exactly what I had hoped for. ‘l’m
not going to publish these stories, I’m
afraid,’ he said ...” The stories accom-
pany Maclaren-Ross like a dead albatross
through the next few years. Graham
Greene agrees to read them in manuscript,
but his wife intercepts them in the post
and sends them back because Greene has
just returned from a tiring trip. “She
was sure that he would have liked to
read my stories but she was also sure that
I would understand why this would not
be possible.”
Denys Kilham-Roberts accepted one of
the stories for “Penguin Parade”; needing
the money, Maclaren-Ross asked for pay-
ment, but was told that payment was not
made on acceptance, nor (his next inquiry
elicited) on publication —and in reply to
his letter asking for a definite date for
payment, his typescript was sent back.
Then there was “Horizon,” which Cyril
Connolly had just started. First of all they


Cooma’s most
modern Motel
IS
"Ike- M&rflWuak
<=> MOTEL 0
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia's leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals.
For reservations and further/aetails contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or ANSETT-PIONEER, 74 Sharp St., Cooma.
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETTI TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
AT1.708
TOPGON
////
EASUR
THE 0
lATMATTE
THROUGH THE LEN
TOPCON cameras have
no limitation to auto-
mation . . . ensure per-
fect results even under
adverse light conditions.
For literature contact:
R. Gunz (Photo) Pty. Ltd.,
24 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
lost the stories altogether—filing them in
error with Stephen Spender’s poems be-
cause the typescript was bound in the
same green covers that Spender used. Dis-
covered, Connolly accepted three of them;
but only printed one. And on the story
goes.
Greene had agreed to look at the stories
after a meeting Maclaren-Ross had had
with him to arrange a dramatisation of
“A Gun For Sale.” (The dramatisation,
typically, was never broadcast. The BBC
kept delaying production because its theme
was too close to the pre-World War II
atmosphere. Finally it was scheduled for
September 1, 1939—but “the broadcast was
naturally cancelled: since, two days later,
we really did have war in our time!”)
Greene was fascinated that Maclaren-
Ross was selling vacuum cleaners, alert
at technical expressions he had not heard
before. Lunch conversation turns to
“Brighton Rock” and Greene summarises
the incident: “Spicer’s girl you see gets a
sudden lech on the Boy, and she wants
him to have a in the back of the
car.”
“Greene shot me a piercing gunmetal
glance to see my reaction to his use of the
word, which itself was shot out like a
bullet from the barrel of Raven’s auto-
matic: presumably as a Catholic I should
have been shocked, but my face remained
impassive.”
It’s a brief exchange, yet the acuteness
of Maclaren-Ross’ observation points to
aspects of Greene’s writing that are worth
considering.
Greene floats through the book after-
wards only in people’s conversations; yet
he becomes a sort of pivotal figure, an
elusive Real Thing. A blitz scene provokes
the comment that Greene had been
looking at it “with peculiar intentness.” His
name recurs briefly on other occasions,
because Greene is the successful, com-
mercially viable writer; a writer at this
point, even, with a certain prestige: a pro-
fessional.
Not that Maclaren-Ross’ world wasn’t
a professional one. They were all trying
to make money, all could turn out the
occasional review or article. But their
ambitions seem less to get the great work
finished than to have a booze-up at the
pub. And when we see Maclaren-Ross
in a job, writing documentary film scripts
after being invalided out of the army,
in a job, writing documentary film scripts
of course, is one of the big names of the
book; but in this episode he is fully part
of the Maclaren-Ross world, and the two
of them work out a system. for being at
their office on only alternative afternoons.
“He spent his in the Horseshoe and mine
were taken up with various young women,
as my love-life was getting rather com-
plicated and I had to be sure that in the
evenings nothing overlapped.” (The
annoying coyness here is rare, incidentally.)
But work at the office was hardly demand-
ing—writing a script for a documentary
on the Home Guard: “Dylan wanted to
incorporate the Free Japanese who made
lampshades below our office ... he tried
very hard to have them in the script.”
The great prince of this world is Tam-
bimuttu, poet and founder-editor of
“Poetry London,” according to himself a
Prince in his own country and now, as
a poet, “My principality is everywhere.”
He embodies splendidly the poverty, bor-
rowing, drinking, improvidence, unreli-
ability, and laziness of the “literary life.”
“Beware of Fitzrovia,” he warns Maclaren-
Ross, “It’s a dangerous place, you must
be careful. ” “Fights with knives?” “No,
a worse danger. You might get Sohoitis
you know.” “No, I don’t, What is it?”
“If you get Sohoitis,” Tambi said very
seriously, “you will stay there always day
and night, and get no work done ever.”
And as Tambi moves from girl to girl,
loses poems submitted to him, reputedly
spends the money for his contributors, we
see Sohoitis in action. It is, as Simon
Raven remarked in his review of the
“Memoirs” in “The London Magazine,”
“a generic disease, a killer under one
name or another from Greenwich Village
to Sydney Harbor.” Raven seemed dis-
gusted by the whole business. The trouble
with Maclaren-Ross is that he makes it
all so fascinating.
He makes it sound so amusing, even in
its poverty and hopelessness. Brilliantly,
he evokes the times and places—the de-
pressed ’thirties, army life in the war, the
literary pubs of the ’forties; both period
and era he catches with a seemingly effort-
less casualness. And it is almost as if one
had been there after reading the book.
The easy, relaxed style inveigles the
reader into the pubs and parties; Ruthven
Todd, Calder-Marshall, Philip Lindsay,
Cyril Connolly, G. S. Marlowe, W. S.
Graham, Gerald Wilde —these and hosts
of others will never be the same again
after they’ve been met through Maclaren-
Ross.
Decomposition
I have a picture I took in Bombay
of a beggar asleep on the pavement:
grey-haired, wearing shorts and a dirty
shirt,
his shadow thrown aside like a blanket.
His arms and legs could be cracks in the
stone > , a . ,
routes for the ants’ journeys, the flies
descents.
Brain-washed by the sun into exhaustion,
he lies veined into stone, a fossil man.
Behind him, there is a crowd passingly
bemused by a pavement trickster and
quite
indifferent to this very common sight
of an old man asleep on the pavement.
I thought it then a good composition
and glibly called it “The Man in the
Street,”
remarking how typical it was of
India that the man in the street lived
there.
His head in the posture of one weeping
into a pillow chides me now for my
presumption at attempting to compose
art out of his hunger and solitude.
ZULFIKHAR GHOSE


now!!!!!!
maximum
L security
r
* >
mm
v5.V'
■ <» **.
i
f
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
£&o/iw&ocl
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to. the Master-Key.
MK-A
IjjMK-B
1 “I
®MK-C
i 1 1
Al.
A 2. A 3.
A 3.0
B\. 82. 83. cr. CB. C 3.
Cl.®
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying-Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions .or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
LOCK UP
WITH
N.Z. agents: G. D. LITTLE LTD. New Guinea Agent: CARL F.
Wellington and Auckland. RADKE AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569-0611 • Sydney:
56-3191, 56-3114, 56-3166, 56-3186
• Brisbane: 7-3047 • Canberra:
4-4098 • Adelaide: 8-2153 • Perth:
23-2214 • Hobart: 3-3141 • Laun-
ceston: 2-1441


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Joining the Lists
THE Government will always argue that the time is not
appropriate, but sooner or later it will have to allow listing
of foreign stocks on Australian Stock Exchanges. For while
the caterwauling for Australian equity participation in local sub-
sidiaries of foreign companies has thankfully died down in recent
times, no doubt it will revive when there is an increase in the
supply of money looking for a home.
Every Press conference held by a representative of a big foreign
owned company is sure to be graced by the inevitable ques-
tion, “Do you intend to offer shares to the Australian public?”
No well-briefed business visitor nowadays makes the mistake of
saying “no”; instead he will talk vaguely about such an eventu-
ality being a long-term possibility provided all sorts of things
... It means “no” nevertheless. And just as well in many cases.
For there is no point in holding shares in a company here if
its parent in the U.S. or Britain is charging it the earth for
licences or management fees or doing any of the manoeuvres
that are open to a world-wide group that would prefer to earn
its profit in one country rather than in another.
Given a reasonable degree of consideration for national
policies, there is nothing wrong with internationalism in business,
although it seems to arouse some remarkable antagonisms; many
of the conflicts that do emerge between these two aims are either
because nationalism has been seen too narrowly or because “busi-
ness internationalism” has been used as a cloak for national
economic expansion.
The increasingly international nature of business was clearly
demonstrated last week in a U.S. Congressional sub-committee
hearing where one witness revealed that more than half the
income of such giant U.S. companies as Standard Oil New
Jersey, Socony Mobil Oil, NCR, Singer, Burroughs, and Colgate
Palmolive came from overseas sales. Between one-third and a
half of the sales of Kodak, Pfizer, Caterpillar, International
Harvester, Corn Products, and Minnesota Mining were overseas.
At present the only U.S. stock listed in Australia is National
Dairy, which resulted from the Kraft takeover. Many other over-
seas giants like Unilever and General Motors have taken the
view that they would favor listing their parent companies here,
but that it is unreal to list local subsidiaries when their results
may be uneven as the major consideration that should prompt
the management decisions of such subsidiaries should be the best
interests of the group, not those of a small minority of local
shareholders. And it is a strongly arguable view.
But the Reserve Bank naturally does not wish to see a great
outflow of capital to foreign firms making placements here simply
to bring this about; there are also fears that local listing of
parent companies here may hasten the takeover of many more
Australian companies by use of high share premiums; and there
is the threat that such listings would make the Australian market •
far too dependent on overseas markets so that we would import
market booms and slumps that could be quite inappropriate.
This may be the price we will have to pay for recognising
that we are a part of the world trading arena. However, it is
no good expecting an international view from countries like
Australia unless it can be shown that genuine internationalism
is motivating the U.S. giants; if there is mounting evidence that
in the case of Canada, for instance, the domestic policies of the
U.S. companies continually take precedence over the national
requirements, then Australia is quite entitled to ask for solid
protection on that score.
MEN AND MATTERS
BEING on a variety of boards and
committees seems to be par for the
course for chairmen of tobacco
companies. Last week Mr. Noel Foley of
British Tobacco (the Wills people) joined
the board of Qantas and Mr. Ron Irish
became chairman of the Government’s
Manufacturing Industries Advisory Coun-
cil in succession to Sir James Kirby.
The chair naturally seems to come the
way of Mr. Irish, the 53-year-old Sydney
accoutant, no matter what organisation
he joins. He is chairman of more public
companies than he is an ordinary direc-
tor of including such big ones as Roth-
mans, CIG, Swift and Co., Anthony
Horderns and of the Sydney Daily-
Mirror before the Adelaide News took
it over.
Mr. Irish has many “public service”
roles apart from being on the manufac-
turing industries council since 1960. In
addition to his multitudinous company
directorships, he finds time to be on the
council of the CSIRO, on two advisory
committees (on wages and productivity
and on northern development) of the
Committee for Economic Development
and is a past president of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants.
Noel Foley, the 51-year-old Townsville-
born BA, B. Com. and almost lawyer, is
not so keen a collector of chairs as his
accountant rival, but he is a strong com-
mittees man. Apart from chairing many
of the varied sub-
sidiaries of British
Tobacco (giving him
almost as wide a
spread of interests
as Mr. Irish with-
out having to go
outside the BT
group) he is on the
council of the new
Macquarie Uni-
versity and is a
director of the Bank of N.S.W. Both men
see their companies having a large role
to play in sport. Both are golfers, with
Mr. Foley having a spell as captain of
the Australian Club at Kensington, while
Mr. Irish is a member of Killara.
IT takes a brave managing director to
be confident about the appliance
trade these days, especially if his
company has been clearly mauled by the
merchandising madness of recent years —
and particularly if he is a member of a
U.K. based group whose chairman and
managing director has just been “retired”
and his assistant sacked over merchandis-
ing policy and bad debt losses.
But since Pye’s Peter Threlfall returned
to Australia the other week from over-
seas he has sounded like a happy and
confident man. “The appliance trade is
settling down at least as far as we are
concerned,” he said. “Things are going so
R. A. Irish
P. Threlfall
Nod Foley
well that we are actually having stock
shortages since bringing out our new
range of television sets.”
But some of his rivals take the view
that Mr. Threlfall is doing what he can
to disturb it. Last month the company
introduced the most revolutionary method
of merchandising appliances since H. G.
Palmers discovered “no deposit.” This is
the Pye four year “free service and pro-
duction protection” plan.
It means a higher wholesale price to
the retail store and also means that the
service contracts so many retailers found
a profitable sideline are no longer needed.
But Mr. Threlfall claims he is neverthe-
less getting strong retailing support for
the Company’s new plan, as it limits the
scope for discounting below the list price,
and it means that Pye has something
tangible to sell that distinguishes it from.
other makers.


Seasonal Slowness
ECONOMIC analysts in Australia have always been at the
Bureau of Census and Statistics for its tardiness in
improving the economic data it puts out. Its failure
to publish seasonal adjustments is one of the criticisms. And
it is not able to offer the usual replies that it cannot get
the staff to do the work or that businessmen will not co-operate;
much of the work has already been done. For several years
some work has been under way and in the past eighteen
months there have been a spate of rumors about impending
publication. But as with the industrial production estimates,
seasonal adjustments just never seem to get published.
The Bureau officially extols the value of proper seasonal
adjustment, although some of its officers adhere firmly to the
old-fashioned view that the only true statistics are simple
facts which can be determined by a full count. For them
estimation, the use of sampling let alone the computation of
trend involved in seasonal adjustment, is high-falutin theorising
which should be left to longhairs in universities, business or
the Treasury Department along the corridor.
At the computer conference this week, however, Mr. Hugh
Brophy of the Bureau presented a paper on the work being
done on seasonal adjustment. Obviously the Bureau is setting
itself high standards. It is attempting to make a number of
improvements on the American Bureau of Labor Statistics
method, generally agreed to be the best in the world. It
will then analyse the results of different methods by so-
called spectral analysis, trying to find the optimum for each
statistical series.
Until then, Mr. Brophy said, the Bureau will not publish.
Not, he agreed, that the more sophisticated methods would
make for very large revisions of existing unpublished esti-
mates, but they would be widespread. This is a rather purist
position to adopt, since most people recognise the need for
continuous revision of many statistics. Indeed the Bureau
already does this for a number of its present series. And
it ignores the point that in the meantime we outside the
Bureau will have to continue relying entirely on seasonal
adjustments, which are far cruder than any of the Bureau’s
present imperfect efforts.
Result Intended
THE undersubscription of the latest Commonwealth loan
may be used as an argument for keeping a tight rein
on money for State public works to be doled out at the
Loan Council meeting in a few weeks’ time. Not that it is
a good argument, for the problem i? not a financial one. The
money going to the States will be limited by the Commonwealth’s
assessment of the likely pace of the private sector and by its
■own requirements.
In Federal election year it is tob ,! ''much. to expect that the
Commonwealth will be more self-denying than usual. It will
almost certainly want to provide a boost to social services
and it will have bigger commitments for defence.
The actual reasons for the undersubscription to the loan
are mixed. Partly it was a result of the short-term money
market having been excluded through a technical adjustment
of the terms and partly it was a result of a realisation in the
market that interest rates are stuck up at their present high
level for the time being. So there is no particular advantage in
investing now rather than later. The Treasury intended this
result. For it was being embarrassed by the massive over-
subscriptions of previous loans, at a time when the Reserve Bank
was releasing money. It was to an extent undoing the Reserve
Bank’s expansionary work. Now it has recovered through some
deft moves in the psychological warfare business that is the
money market.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: Mr. McMahon, the Federal
Treasurer, is to bring down the Budget on Tuesday,
August 16 . . . The last Commowuealth loan in the
1965-66 financial year, asking for $75 million, closed
under-subscribed; other revenue declines and the drought
had earlier indicated a deficit for 1965-66 . . . Mr.
Holt does not wish to establish a community depending
upon a single crop (cotton), so the Ord River projects
second stage will be deferred.
A still-healthy economy is reflected by April’s employ-
ment statistics: registrants fell by 1728 to 56,576, while
job vacancies dropped, quite normally, to 36,864 . . .
Trading bank advances in April went up $94.3 million
to a record $2792.1 million; deposits were $57.1 million
lower at $5096 million. Usage of overdraft limits has
reached its highest since July, 1961.
For the markets: With overseas exchanges being
continuously buffeted, Australian share markets could
scarcely be expected to retain the previous week’s relative
sureness. Recent dealings have seen many industrials
creep back in rather dull trading, unhindered by any
leader protection. Dullness can’t be applied to oils
or metals, though; Woodside and Western Mining gave
plenty of stimulus to their respective sections.
The seamen’s strike put a cloud over London, yet
reactions seem moderate and well-disciplined. Some
notice must also be taken of fresh pressure on sterling
... At present Wall Street is obviously the headiest
of them all, digesting Detroit-induced pessimism, vaguely
possible tax increases and Vietnam at the same time.
A now-prevalent bearishness is accompanied by hectic
technical rallies and recurrent attention to fixed-interest
securities.
For companies : Ten months’ output figures from
BHP suggest a record production of steel ingots for 1965-
66, mainly with the help of Whyalla . . . Another giant,
Australian Consolidated Industries, found no trouble in
achieving a 10.8 percent profit advance to a peak
$9,574,000, paying a steady 10 percent dividend doubly
covered . . . An 11.1 percent gain in sales only meant
a 12.4 percent half-year earnings retreat for Ampol
Petroleum, to leave the usual 7 percent interim uncovered.
An air of buoyancy returns with Television Corpor-
ation, which forecasts a 14 percent profit lift in the
year to June and retains a 20 percent dividend . . .
Sustained vigor marks yarn dyer and supplier Bums
Consolidated, making its fourth cash issue since 1962,
one-for-four with $1 premium a 50c share.
Old-timer Wunderlich could not be abashed by any
building troubles: profits leaped 33.3 percent to $912,434
and currently appear “satisfactory” . . . Steel merchant
J. Blackwood and Son also predicts a peak result to
June, earning better on higher capital . , . Timber
fared worse under Kauri’s auspices; a half-year loss
forced omission of ordinary dividend after 7 percent
lower sales.
Renison’s enlarged concentration plant should be
finished “midway through next year,” well in line with
cost estimates . . . Tin miner Loloma has been affected
by Great Boulder Gold Mines’ deferred final, so paid
a 4 cent interim instead of 4.2 cents and eliminated the
tax-free element.
Melbourne bowling centre operator Bowl-O-Matic,
floated in 1962, will liquidate . . . Associated Steam-
ships Pty. Ltd., owned by Mcllwraith McEacharn ahd
Adelaide Steamship, joins a large overseas group to
operate container-ship terminals in Australia.
The Stock Exchange of Melbourne has told A. G.
Healing the meaning of net profit.


T
IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including . . .
The Persian Room Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque, too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392
RESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
RH 204/66
Hawke’s Mice and Men
Crawford next for the Commission?
By CROESUS
FEW VIPs will envy Sir James Vernon his confrontation with Mr. Hawke in the
Arbitration Commission this week. But one at least could be his fellow com-
mittee member and one-man brains trust, Sir John Crawford.
Going on his dialectical excursion at the
Australian Industries Development Associ-
ation’s annual meeting in Melbourne last
Monday, Crawford is in rare form for
a possible joust on the Vernon findings.
One never knows, it could be his turn
next. If Mr. Hawke may hesitate to
match his wits with this economic expert,
maybe Mr. Robinson will call him.
In the old days the Arbitration Com-
mission’s proceedings were the more realis-
tic for the calling of economics experts to
dilate on the state of the economy and
its relation to possible wages changes. This
is a far better method than leaving it
all to the barristers who, like the Com-
missioners themselves, are not necessarily
traine ( d in the economic arts.
In the majority judgment last year it
was suggested that written submissions by
economists and others would assist the
Commission, but nobody has come for-
ward voluntarily with one, not even the
Government. The onus of enlightening
the Commission on economic aspects has
continued to devolve on the barristers.
True, Mr. Robinson drew extensively on
the Vernon Report in arguing the employ-
ers’ case, but of course this wasn’t an
actual submission to the Commission.
While Mr. Hawke’s calling of Sir James
is quite logical, it could prove to be a
boomerang if he also gets Sir John. And
one may wonder where the callings will
stop, what will be the ultimate effect on
the recruitments of VIPs to official Gov-
ernment advisory committees and the likely
impact on co-operation between Govern-
ment and private enterprise in general.
In the latter respect we should perhaps
weigh the words of Mr. F. M. Wiltshire,
a very old hand in banking and business,
when, in his presidential address to the
AIDA meeting, he touched briefly on
the subject of co-operation between Govern-
ment and business and the need to
strengthen lines of communication between
them. If, as he said and it seems
true there is a real shortage of
competent people to serve on advisory
bodies, the calling of Sir James Vernon
at least might have the effect of aggravat-
ing it. People may be quite willing to
give their time and energy to advis-
ing; few will relish the idea of being put
on the spot for their trouble in the highly
charged industrial atmosphere of the
Arbitration Commission.
A s for the shortage, Wiltshire said, “I
am bound to say it is a little unfor-
tunate to observe the same names
appearing again and again on advisory
bodies.” The problem is bigger than one
might at first think to get appropriate
men- with sound business judgment for
these “voluntary” tasks, not to speak of
the right people for the growing number
of statutory bodies to which Mr. Wiltshire
also referred “for example the Tariff
Board, the Grants Commission, arbitra-
tion tribunals, the new tribunals that are
to be set up for the restrictive trade prac-
tices legislation, and so on.”
What Sir John Crawford had to say
to AIDA on the changing balance of
private and public power in Australia
seemed to me to be highly relevant to
this question. If the lines of communi-
cation between private enterprise and
Government are not strengthened, it
seems to me we run a high risk of the
balance swinging even more than it
has done in favor of Government against
what Mr. Holt called “co-operative
democracy” in a speech in Sydney a
couple of months ago.
Considering the limited availability of
businessmen for government liaison work
in Australia, if for no other reason, thank
goodness, the Vernon Committee eschewed
recommending the sort of detailed plan
for the economy that Britain is now stuck
with involving targets for particular
industries and all that, as distinct from
guidelines on rates of growth considered
more broadly. In passing, it is salutary
to reflect how these detailed plans can
come unstuck almost overnight. Witness
the effect of the present seamen’s strike
in the U.K. Incidentally, this strike will
also cancel out any benefit that might
have been expected to accrue in the next
year to the U.K.’s balance of payments
from the curbs imposed on the export
of capital earlier this month.
In my view the broad approach to
economic planning is the only practical
course here. We have to keep reminding
ourselves of the dangers of the alter-
native, which we could be led to in the
name of detailed planning if some people
had their way and present trends toward
centralised surveillance over economic
activity were strengthened. It would be
easy to fall into the trap because, as Sir
John Crawford said, “Public power is no
longer the exercise of keeping order in
the ring while private enterprisers slug
it out for the common good; we have to
accept the conclusion that public and
private economic power are no longer in-
dependent of one another, either in objec-
tives or interests or in the exercise of
their decision making.
“I have tried to make it plain on many
occasions,” he went on, “that I am not
an enthusiast for formal planning in the
sense of detailed industry targets. But
I do believe we need to improve insti-
tutional arrangements for making the
partnership of public and private power
more effective.”
Sir John instanced many of the present
contacts between the executive and the
private sector but said that, although they
are necessary and have value, they do not
amount to the degree of partnership that
many wish to see. They tend to relate
to specific measures of policy or decisions
of the Civil Service, rather than support
an effective interchange on broad policy.
“I think it high time,” he continued, “that
industry organisations themselves gave some
thought to improve machinery for making
their voices both public and effective. Not
to do so is to leave the advisory role
to both Ministers and Parliament almost
wholly to the Civil Service, whose com-
petence is undoubted but whose views
are not as a rule open to public examin-
ation and who too often lack adequate
experience of the economic world at large.
“I think organised interests must be
heard and would, in a democrary, con-
cede this as a ‘right.’ I do not mind
if this is formulated as it is by Professor
S. Beer in his book on ‘Modern British
Politics,’ as a right to participate in
policy making provided there is a
clear limit imposed on the making
of it. In all my official life I was (and
remain). very conscious of a necessary
limit to intervention in public policy by
private interest groups. Nevertheless, I
was no less conscious of the futility of
governing without the attempt to gain
full understanding and acceptance of
policy decisions,” Sir John said.


fdh
Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
3
0
4
PER ANNUM 9 YEARS
0
2
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
0
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6r.
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
51%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
41%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form
referred to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of
application should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
, BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
FCN.2
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA COMMENT
Too Late for Tax Cuts
THE National Bank’s call for tax cuts
comes far too late to arouse any
sympathy in Government circles. In
the closing months of last year and for
just a little while this year, the Govern-
ment and its Treasury advisers were
privately apprehensive about recessional
trends in the economy, even if they main-
tained. an unruffled public posture. There
was considerable pressure of opinion then
in favor of tax cuts and pump-priming
injections of new Government spending.
That is history now.
From August to December last year
the seasonally adjusted figure for un-
employment rose by almost a half by an
average of 5000 each month, and motor
registrations crashed to an annual rate
of 320,000 from 440,000. Private housing
approvals similarly plummeted from
110,000 to 85,000. The ANZ Bank index
indicated that industrial production was
dropping off month by month and the
effects of the onset of the drought had
widespread repercussions.
Treasury was very worried. After all
it had claimed that its Budget had been
“expansionary.” Then there were strong
arguments for tax cuts, but the Govern-
ment hung on and merely applied
stimulation to specific soft spots farm-
ing and housing while easing restraints
on bank lending.
,r fHE gamble seems to have come off, for
the economy has shown a strong if not
a complete recovery in the New Year.
The rise in unemployment has been halted
and so has the fall in industrial produc-
tion. Motor sales bounced quickly back
up to an annual rate of almost 390,000, a
50 percent recovery, and GM-H was able
to take on again most of the staff laid
off in September. Private housing approvals
are now almost back to the boom levels
of last year, the only section still un-
revived being flat building in the Sydney
metropolitan area.
Retail sales and consumer spending
have been stagnant for almost 18 months,
though again the latest figures give some
ground for hope. The general feeling in
Canberra is that the Arbitration Commis-
sion is likely to react strongly against last
year’s ungenerous award and that this will
provide more than adequate stimulus.
The National Bank also expressed ap-
prehension that capital expenditure by
business, which is such an important un-
derpinning of the economy as well as
the principal determinant of long-term
growth, might fall off. This would cer-
tainly not be surprising after the immense
upsurge of last year and in view of the
fact that the general tempo of economic
activity has fallen off. Since business puts
up new buildings and installs new equip-
ment mainly to cater for expanded de-
mand, when that expansion fails to even-
tuate it will tend to tailor down its capital
programs.
There is some evidence that this has
actually been happening. The motor in-
dustry is spending much less than before
on expanding capacity and in retailing
Coles have pruned their plans for new
stores. The figures for non-housing ap-
provals are not jumping up month by
month as they once were.
But beyond that there is no evidence
even of the beginnings of any slump in
business spending. The anticipated
spending for the first half of the
year, as shown in the Commonwealth
Statistician’s survey, was down only
because it is down every year for
the first six months. Allowing for
this, anticipated spending by business-
men was as high as ever. It seems that
spending on the minerals projects in the
West may be making up for atiy slack
appearing elsewhere in the business arena.


r GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
Debenture Stock
(Second Series)
1
TO
UP
2
10
YEARS
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog*
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
210 Alinga Street, Canberra. Ph.: 4 4231
k Brokers: lan Potter & Co. 6846/C/2R a
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
BUSINESS BOOKS REVIEW
British Attitudes on Aid
Two Views on Aid to Developing Countries.
Barbara Ward and P. T. Bauer. Institute
of Economic Affairs, London. $0.75.
THE story is apparently going round
Britain that Mr. Callaghan is talking
with his tongue in cheek in saying
that Britain’s curbs on capital outflow
to the overseas Commonwealth will be
lifted in due course, that is when the
triple - objective of a strong pound, full
employment, and industrial strength is
achieved.
The suggestion, as ventilated in the
“Guardian,” is that the days of pseudo-
economic imperialism are over and that
Lord Cromer’s departure from the Bank
of England’s governorship puts as positive
a stamp on the change as the capital
curbs themselves and as Callaghan’s
resolve not to create unemployment in
Britain through the enforcement of de-
flationary measures just for the luxury of
succoring development in the under-
developed countries.
This all ties in very neatly with the
moves being accelerated to get Britain
into the Common Market and to use
capital that might otherwise come here
to strengthen Britain’s own industrial
competitiveness.
We should take the possible re-orienting
very seriously. For one thing, after a
long experience there, I have never been
convinced of Britain’s sincerity toward
the Commonwealth. (I have never dis-
puted our own the other way.) Given
more promising economic alternatives,
I’ve long felt we would be phased out of
that country’s main economic calculation.
For another, it is beyond dispute now that,
mainly through acceptance of the theories
of its two principal economic advisers,
Kaldor and Bauer, the Wilson Govern-
ment has arrived at a new economic
philosophy toward underdeveloped coun-
tries.
One cannot be too sure whether the
extreme views of P. T. Bauer toward
developing countries have been wholly
accepted by the British Labor Party. But
at least an exposition of them, as found
in Occasional Paper No. 9 published by
the U.K. Institute of Economic Affairs this
year, goes some way in explaining the
direction of current official thinking in
Britain. In this paper Bauer’s views are
put alongside those of Liberal economist
Barbara Ward and they are as chalk
to cheese.
Bauer’s reasoning is as complex as the
number of facets he sees in the assessment
of the usefulness of foreign aid, but a
general line on his approach and attitudes
can be gleaned from key passages, such
as the following underlining fundamental
ingredients of progress which foreign aid
tends to push into the background. Bauer
would argue that capital inflow, as dis-
tinct from aid, would have the same sort
of effects in reducing self-reliance and self-
help. He could be right, at least in our
own case.
He says, “Even if on balance the flow
of aid increases the volume of productive
investment in the recipient country
of which there is no assurance this
factor is likely to be less important in its
development than a number of other
factors, such as the emergence of appro-
priate economic qualities and attitudes,
the spread of the exchange economy, the
establishment of suitable institutional
arrangements (as, for instance, the re-
placement of communal by individual
tenure of land), the extension of inter-
regional contacts and the advance of
technical knowledge. These factors are
likely to be particularly important in
poor countries characterised by a large
subsistence sector and by the prevalence
of customs, attitudes, and economic
qualities uncongenial to material pro-
gress.
B y focusing attention on investible
funds, the advocacy, the flow and the
criteria of foreign aid serve to divert
resources and attention from these fac-
tors and influences. The emphasis on
investment expenditure as a propellant
of development obscures the importance
of these factors. This emphasis, though
misleading, is comforting. It absolves
people, especially those responsible for
policy, from considering the possibilities
and costs of operating on the basic deter-
minants of material advance. It encourages
the facile belief that such advance is
possible without the qualities, attitudes,
and efforts which it has required else-
where—in other words, that economic
development is possible without cultural
change.”
Obviously altruists and capital-hungry
countries alike will feel much more com-
fortable with the views of Barbara
Ward, who wants to press on with pres-
ent efforts to bring the underdeveloped
countries forward through the maximis-
ing of aid and capital inflow, coupled
with measures to increase the exports of
primary producing countries. Miss Ward
is disappointed at the progress made thus
far in narrowing the income gap between
rich and poor countries and acknowledges
the obstacles.
One should mention here that the
U.K. Institute of Economic Affairs has
recently come to an arrangement making
all its publications available in this
country through the Institute of Public
Affairs in Melbourne, which has all the
details. The latest two to arrive are this
one on aid to developing countries and
a study by the old Permanent Secretary
of the Colonial Office and now director
of the LSE, Sir Sydney Caine, on prices
for primary producers, which will be-
come essential reading here.
J.C.H.


TEACHER
of
PHYSICS and CHEMISTRY
TO MATRICULATION
required as soon as possible.
Good prospects.
Please apply with references:
Headmaster,
GIPPSLAND GRAMMAR SCHOOL
McGhee Street, SALE, YIC.
A Challenge to the Leader
New names in foundation garments
GIRDLES are fast taking over from brassieres as the main support for the foundation
garment business these days. This is one of the many major changes that have
altered its structure out of sight in the past ten years.
Last year the local industry produced
enough brassieres to supply every Austra-
lian woman of brassiere-wearing age with
two brassieres and one girdle repre-
senting a substantial change in the pattern
of production. During the past decade,
Australian brassiere production has risen
by about two-thirds, giving a modest
annual growth rate of about five percent
a year, while output of corsets and girdles
has risen at more than double that rate.
Last year there were 675,000 dozen bras-
sieres and 342,000 dozen corsets and
girdles produced locally.
But probably the biggest change has
been in the mounting and successful chal-
lenge in the past ten years to the indus-
try’s long-time leader, Berlei United Ltd.
Dominating the Australian foundation
garment industry somewhat as British
Tobacco did in cigarettes and tobacco,
Berlei United was equally vulnerable to
the competitive thrusts of newcomers.
Berlei, by its own research into vital
statistics, had developed concepts of Aus-
tralian womanhood which set the pattern
for others. Schooled in Berlei methods at
great cost to Berlei, its staff promoted the
industry in general perhaps as much as
Berlei products. The rivals, who now, put
together, solidly outweigh Berlei in the
•local market, have substantially benefited
from this. But Berlei has been able to
salve its hurt by developing its growing
market in the U.K., where its subsidiary
now provides about three-quarters of the
group’s profit.
Strangely enough, the mounting com-
petition has not really brought the indus-
try much in terms of better styling. Most
of the benefits to customers have been in
lower prices.
The industry in Australia, largely owing
to Berlei’s influence, was once second only
to the U.S. in garment construction, but
now garments produced here are up to
four years behind the styling found in
several other countries. Berlei, which
sells probably 20 percent more than
Hickory (Dowd Associates Pty.) and with
which it accounts for 60 percent of the
market, was pipped for profit honors last
year by up-and-coming Hestia Co. Ltd.,
which earned $173,000.
Dowd (48 percent owned by A. Stein
of the U.S.) came next with $164,000 (a
big drop from 1964 result), probably fol-
lowed by a private Brisbane company,
Jenyns (which supplies Woolworths), and
Formfit of Australia Ltd. (28 percent
owned by Formfit of America) with
$96,000. The also-rans include R. and
W. H. Symington and Co. (Aust.) Pty.
of Melbourne, of English parentage, and
H. W. Gossard (American lineage), Play-
tex (subsidiary of International Latex Cor-
poration of the U.S.), David W. Murray
(the wholesalers), and one or two others.
ONCE relying largely on franchise lines,
Berlei has built up its own lines with
the direct or indirect result that the fran-
chise from Warner Bros. Co., of New
Jersey, will be terminated next November.
This leaves Berlei with Gothic, the biggest
selling bra (a franchise from Dominion
Corset Co., of Canada), Sarong, the biggest
girdle seller, Maiden Form (not nearly
such a success as in U.S.A.), and Berlei’s
own lines.
Warners have given their franchise to
Ada of California (a totally Australian
show which in about eight years has be-
come a big name in swimsuits), which will
make at Huntingdale in Victoria.,Warners
are the biggest bra and girdle makers in
the world, and the third biggest in the
whole apparel market in the U.S. Their
“firsts” include the stretch strap bra, the
now universal method of sizing bras with
cup fittings, and substitution of stainless-
steel for grandmother’s whalebones. They
should create a big impact under the new
arrangement in Australia.
Berlei directors, accustomed in their long
business experience to protection by import
restrictions, complain perennially about
competition from imports. In fact, this is
infinitesimal in corsets and girdles, and
has been pretty constant for the past five
years at 17 percent of the total bra quantity
market. (Value of these imports was
$428,000 in 1964-65, of which 90 percent
were from Hong Kong.)
The imports are very much at the cheap
end of the range, for chainstores. De-
partment stores, with their fitting rooms
and fitting consultants, are concerned at
the need to provide bra bars for point-of-
sale purchase to compete with the chains.
Their executives deplore the general ten-
dency of store buyers to trade down, which
policy demands a higher turnover for a
profit equal to that obtainable on high-
class merchandise. From a nationalistic
point of view, considering local employ-
ment and the state of foreign reserves, it
is up to the retailers (and the consumers)
to discipline themselves to “Buy Austra-
lian.”
Both the bra and corset and girdle
markets have experienced healthy growth
in the past five years or so. Being primarily
functional garments, the industry is re-
markably stable, in contrast to outer gar-
ments. Entry of new names has un-
doubtedly made the industry more com-
petitive in recent years, throwing greater
weight on advertising and sales promotion.
In co-operative advertising (a great
feature of regional Press advertising),
manufacturers report they are being
squeezed by the retailer. Their answers
could be to concentrate on television ad-
vertising (prepared on a national basis),
as Playtex has done in the U.K., with
devastating effect. It has jumped to
number one wholesaler over there.
Playtex will be the one to watch here,
where it is not yet in girdles, Berlei still
retaining (for how long?) their Sarong
franchise.
Australian women buy as many bras
per capita as in the U.S., so the market
has steadied to an annual growth of only
about 5 percent. But girdle purchases
are about half the American rate and the
girdle market is growing at the rate of
15 percent a year.
As it is difficult to buy a girdle without
a fitting, the local makers and retailers
of quality merchandise should be able to
hold their own better than in the bra
business.
The foundation-garment industry has,
with due credit to Berlei as pioneer, been
one of the most efficient and progressive,
capable of taking its place with world
leaders. Berlei today earns royalties from
the U.S. and Europe for its designs, and
Hestia is meeting with some success in
exporting to low-cost countries in the Far
East, and has ambitions in Europe, too.


_
FOR 4YEARS
OR 6 YEARS
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from —
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank,
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in N.S.W.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.,
Corrie & Co,
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest & Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
fdh
<s
V 3
A:
cr~
Phones
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 311861
Perth 21 6273
‘fl/vm, -fSi&n As sfjift,
BENEFICIAL
P
Seeking the Pot of Gold
WILD CAT
PAGES
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
THE mining post still has the pot-of-gold look about it (except for gold stocks).
Searchers after a quick fortune can still make or lose one in mining shares
despite the drab appearance of the rest of the market.
The only way to make quick money in
a market is through quick price moves —
and the mining market has not failed to
provide them both ways, with the base
metals ,men looking far less healthy than
a few weeks ago. But Western Mining,
with its nickel prospects, Consolidated
Rutile and Western Titanium in beach
sands and Woodside and now Planet
have all moved well up, with the stock
option players (both off and on the Stock
Exchanges) solidly playing them still for
even more moves to come
Main buying strength for Western Min-
ing seems to be coming from the big
Melbourne broking house that recently put
out a very bullish circular about the com-
pany’s nickel prospects; and last week’s
BULLETIN article suggesting a doubling
of the company’s profits may have help-
ed the market along. However, our mining
man says he was being too conservative;
another look at his mathematics suggests
that the pre-tax profit from this venture
alone based on his earnings assumptions of
last week would be $2.1 million instead
of the $1.2 million he indicated, which
would suggest a net profit addition to
the group of $1.4 million rather than his
more modest suggestion last week of
$BOO,OOO. If the costs work out in keeping
with his outline it seems, then, that Wes-
tern Mining could treble the net profit
due to its shareholders after the nickel
project is in full swing.
LAST week’s high volume of stock
option trading underlines the specu-
lative appeal of North Australian
Uranium Corporation and Paringa fol-
lowing Metal Exploration’s decision to
pass half of its interest in the Mount
Cleveland tin venture direct to share-
holders. It is doubtful that the move is
one of benevolence. More likely the
group simply does not have enough
cash to finance its 25 percent interest it-
self. This is the case with Aberfoyle, the
fourth partner, which is attempting to sell
off its interest in Western Titanium to
finance its obligations.
Aberfoyle, too, could very well end up
handing a portion of its interest over to
shareholders. NAUC and Paringa have yet
to announce what they will be doing,
although it is pretty well on the cards that
Paringa will be calling on shareholders
to finance its entire share of the Mount.
Mount Cleveland is the biggest of the
Aberfoyle group’s tin developments. It is
expected to yield about $30,000,000 worth
of tin once mining gets under way. At
present the only thing holding up pro-
ceedings is the lack of funds.
SURPRISINGLY, there has been little
reaction to last week’s statement
from Mr. W. H. Connolly, chairman
of the Victorian SEC. Announcing a new
$6,000,000 loan, he said brown coal would
be the cheapest fuel for base-load genera-
tion under present conditions He said this
had been established after a careful
assessment of the alternatives offered by
natural gas, oil, and nuclear energy.
So, despite those who have extolled the
cheapness of natural gas for generating
electricity, and if, as Mr. Connolly said,
coal is cheaper for base-load operations,
then it is doubtful whether the savings
possible through natural gas generation
would justify the costs of supply and in-
stallation if the gas were only to be used
for non base-load production.
Whatever the facts, the SEC is clearly
sceptical of the possibilities of using
natural gas. It plans to invest some
$1,000,000,000 on capital construction in
the next ten years. About half of this will
go on works in the Latrobe Valley,
expanding brown coal undertakings.
Another $300,000,000 odd will go on the
new Hazlewood power station and the
doubling of brown coal production from
Morwell.
Then there are a wide range of inves-
tigations to be made if supplies are to be
kept up with demand in the years ahead.
But the majority of these are to be based
on brown coal or, possibly, nuclear
energy. Natural gas is a long way down
the list of alternatives.
MELBOURNE sharebrokers Guest
and Bell have turned out a very
bullish 12-page review of Crestknit
Industries Ltd., a dynamic group to whom
“it would be erroneous to attach the
stigma of a range of poor textile com-
panies.” The outstanding feature of the
circular, apart from its thoroughness, is
the concrete and binding predictions it
makes about 1966 results. Among other
things, the brokers foresee a jump in
earning rate from 26.3 to 40.3 percent.


• TIM
52 So
'Sob
■Sir
Sit!
Si
•Or
SSSSpI
J DD®
-.0 o*'
M-ti
3#
&o«S
too”
000“
W3**?
Gfl
oo?
ddQ
5 a
■’■ -
(S.
°Oti
N»
l a»7«oi
So
96
s«
SSc
So
ciflS
<3>
ur."
W.
r"
<5?
SogSs
00?^
fie
<#»
i!"l
&>
WV,?s!s
i?Soc«
WHi
!fc~
<s>
«'Bf
Where’s the best office space for you?
Ask Jones, Lang, Wootton, they are “making room”
every day for Australia’s largest (and smallest)
businesses and companies.
You can view office space with an experienced
member of our staff without obligation. We invite
your enquiries which will receive our immediate
attention ... 67 8821.
JONES LANG WOOTTON
AUSTRALIAN PROGRESS THROUGH REAL ESTATE
116 Queen Street, Melbourne. Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Scottish Amicable House HO Queen Street, 4.60 Bourke Street,
BP House and A 37 St. Kilda Road, a few of the buildings in which
space is currently available in Melbourne.
Sales are made under the Crestknit and
Aywon brands and supported by an exten-
sive national advertising campaign. An
index of the rise in the monetary value
of sales, using 1960 as the base 100 year,
puts 1965 sales at 190 and estimates 1966
sales at 203 or more than double 1960.
Stocks and debtors, the two bug-bears
of the textile industry, have been handled
successfully by the group. Credit control
is “strict and constant” while the only
stocks kept are those for service and are
in transit. .
On the basis of pre-tax profit figures
released for the first half of the current
year, a 30 percent profit rise is predicted
for the full twelve months although sales
are only expected to rise about 13 percent.
Guest and Bell point out that the 1965
profit was after writing off $25,000 spent
on building improvements and providing
$68,000 for accrued long service leave. In
addition, the tax provided was 47.6 per-
cent of net profit, not the required 42.5
percent. Earning rate, as imputed from
this excess provision, would be nearer
32.8 than the stated 26.3 percent. Current
price earnings ratio on this corrected basis
moves from 9.2 to 7.5, which suggests the
price “will almost certainly not decline
below the present level irrespective of the
behaviour of the market as a whole.” They
recommend buying at $l.lB (prices have
since moved to $1.15).
THE market is once again getting ner-
vous about WJ Manufacturing, the
highly diversified Sydney engineer,
chemist, laminate producer, and merchant.
The shares are down to about 1.20 after
being as high as 1.70 last year and 2.10
the year before.
The death of chairman and managing
director W. C. Steanes last November, the
withdrawal of ACI from the joint Alsy-
nite venture, the downturn in building atid
automotive industries which it services are
all given as reasons, reinforced by the
lower interim profit reported in March.
On all scores, the market is being
harsh. The management appears in good
hands, atid none of the late Mr. Steanes’
shares are believed likely to come on the
market; the arrangement with ACI on
Alsynite is to the advantage of both par-
ties and reflects no loss of enthusiasm by
ACI for the product, which it will con-
tinue to distribute; the business downturn
in the building and automotive industries
has been more than offset by rises in
other sectors (as the figures below show);
and the 7 percent lower profit (which
still gives a comfortable dividend cover)
was due only to the increased tax figure
as tax benefits ended in fact, pre-
tax profits went up almost 20 percent.
This week the company reported on
the way its sales are split up, showing that
its industrial materials division now does
23.3 percent of its business, general
engineering does 18.7 percent; condenser
bushings -4.7 percent; chemical products
25.6 percent; building materials 9.6 per-
cent; and Alsynite (a laminated trans-
lucent roofing material) 18.1 percent.
It also reported the direction of sales,
which indicates a continued trend away
from overwhelming dependence on any
one industry a situation that had


What goes on in
CRA
7
u
(Miningand Manufacturing...to put it briefly.)
In fact, a score of big and active companies
have their headquarters in this building
in Collins Street, Melbourne, the offices of
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited.
Conzinc Riotinto is a company with more
than ten thousand Australian Shareholders.
The member companies of the C.R.A. Group have
interests in many aspects of mining and industry.
They are engaged in such diverse activities as
the mining and processing of the ores of lead,
silver, zinc, aluminium, iron, copper and uranium,
in mining coal and beach sands, in growing
and milling timber, in power generation, in
manufacturing chemicals and fertilizers, in oil
and mineral exploration and construction
engineering. With this big investment in
Australia, C.R.A. is playing a major role in
the development of this country’s enormous
mineral and industrial potential and, at the
same time, providing the raw materials
for the growing industries of our Asian
friends and neighbours.
fdh
CONZINC RIOTINTO OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
95 Collins Street, Melbourne
V •* t
■ tor
Ke&m' m J
m
l
m
V*
' tMWmtWm i
. v.r
■ »v;
■. ■
f A fc
W-
m
i
«s%
*«»*r —.
4
tW*sF'4
P * :
Z'
«4
j® <
0-i
o ,-r *
, -*w 'w : ' .L'<*
p. If *
4#.s*
m: -, ••'/ '•' ';■•'• #.- A--.- *« |
fey
'#i*W- '•'- v ?i‘ 2■*
••FuFi .., , \Cf:r km
*?# &: '
yWF/'
t< f
CRI6 Z


KNOX GRAMMAR SCHOOL
WAHROONGA, N.S.W.
Additional teaching staff will be required to com-
mence Ist Term 1967 when the secondary course
extends to six years. There will be four vacancies:—
1. Mathematics to Higher School Certificate and Matricu-
lation.
2. Mathematics and Science to Higher School Certifi-
cate and Matriculation.
3. Mathematics and Science to School Certificate (end
of Fourth Year).
4. French to School Certificate ability to teach
Class Music will be an advantage.
Some accommodation available for single applicants.
Superannuation scheme. Salary Scales £ 1825-£ 2431,
according to experience and qualification.
Written application to the Headmaster (Dr. T. R.
McKenzie) should be supported by at least two testi-
monials, and should state previous experience, games
and extra-curricular interests.
s'
s *:
# A '■
-> .
sgg |
WATER TIGHT
Thats because it went by Certified Mail. You receive a receipt as
proof of postage, and a signature from the person to whom your
article is addressed, as proof of personal delivery. Sending any
document or correspondence of importance by Certified Mail leaves
no room for doubt. And it only costs you 3c plus normal postage.
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
caused the company serious trouble in
earlier years.
Back in 1960, the automotive industry
took 8 percent of WJ’s sales, three years
later it took 11 percent and now it takes
only 2.2 percent. Other industries have
changed their intake over the last six
years accordingly chemicals, lB,
and now 25.6 percent; building 12, 22,
27.7 percent (of which 18.7 percent is
industrial); electrical, 21-2, 14, 19f per-
cent (of which 13J percent is heavy);
engineering 22, 22, 20-|- percent; and mis-
cellaneous 10, 13, \\ percent.
The company’s record has only been
moderate in its 14 years since listing and
there can be no doubt that gross earnings
will have to rise appreciably to make up
for the eventual loss of tax benefits. This
may hold back the current year’s profits,
but for the longer term profitability seems
likely to improve as the benefits of cen-
tralised operations at Brookvale and
probable disposal of the Mosman property
have their effect.
INTEREST has been increasing lately
in the search for deposits of phos-
phate rock, both offshore and on-
shore in Australia. Despite intensive
exploration no major deposits have yet
been discovered and all superphosphate
requirements have to be produced from
imported phosphate rock at an annual
cost of over $l6 million in both 1964 and
1965, when almost 2J million tons of
phosphate rock p.a. were imported, mainly
from Nauru, Ocean Island, and Christ-
mas Island.
Applications have been made for tem-
porary mineral reserves for phosphates
and other minerals covering 415,000 square
miles off the West Australian coast between
Eucla and Broome. One of the appli-
cants, Ocean Mining A.G., of Switzer-
land (American-controlled), is a world
leader in offshore mining techniques.
Other applicants include Ampol Mining
Pty. Ltd., BP Oil Supplies Pty. Ltd.,
Phosphate Exploration Pty. Ltd., and
Ocean Mineral Surveys Pty. Ltd.
Onshore, Planet Oil Company N.L.,
through its mineral exploration subsidiary,
is currently searching for phosphate in
the Cape Otway area of Victoria, in
northern Tasmania, and is test drilling
a prospect near Kapunda, 45 miles nor’-
nor’-east of Adelaide. This area, which was
the source of most of the State’s recorded
production prior to 1954, is part of a
200-mile belt of phosphate deposits which
are mostly too high in iron oxides and
alumina for superphosphate manufacture.
So far, Planet has reported values of
between 20 and 30 percent from leached
surface samples.
Planet is also currently investigating an
extensive mineralised area in the Peter-
mann Ranges, in the south-west comer
of the Northern Territory. An aero-
magnetic survey has revealed magnetic
anomalies coincident with the recently dis-
covered large mineralised gossans, where
grab samples indicated a high silver and
significant lead, copper, and gold values,
A field party is now conducting an exten-
sive outcrop sampling program. Planet’s
shares have" also received increased market
attention lately in view of the company’s
10 percent interest in Woodside’s onshore
and offshore oil permits in Gippsland.


FLY TO TOKYO
HONG KONG, BANGKOK
V
SWISSCARE +■ WORLDWIDE
MINING
Uranium’s Better Hopes
IN line with brighter world prospects
for the uranium industry, the pos-
sibility that resumption of mining
could take place earlier than 1970, as
previously estimated, is indicated in the
annual report of Australia’s third largest
producer, United Uranium N.L., issued
earlier this month.
However, last March the chairman of
Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd., by far the
largest Australian producer, repeated his
previous forecasts that MKU was unlikely
to write another contract before 1970.
MKU is 51 percent owned by Conzine
Riotinto of Australia Ltd., the other major
shareholder being Kathleen Investments
Australia Ltd. CRA, through its wholly-
owned subsidiary Territory Enterprises
Pty. Ltd., is also producing and stock-
piling uranium oxide from Australia’s
second largest mine at Rum Jungle on
behalf of the Commonwealth Government.
During 1965, estimates of the future
demand for uranium oxide in non-Com-
munist countries were revised with the
announcement of plans for increased use
of nuclear power by several countries, in
particular for civil power purposes. Of
special significance was the Bill passed
in the U.S. in August, 1964, permitting
the private ownership of nuclear materials
after January 1, 1971.
Although most authorities consider that
world production of uranium oxide
(U 308), which fell from a high of 39,000
short tons in 1959 to 24,100 tons in
1964, will reach a low of about 9000 to
11,600 tons p.a. in 1968 to 1970, other
authorities such as the South African
Atomic Energy Board believe that the
resurgence in demand will begin before
the next decade, possibly as early as
1968.
In August, 1965, the European Nuclear
Energy Agency estimated non-Communist
world low cost reserves those costing
between SU.S. 5 to 10 per. lb. of U3OB
to produce at 682,000 short tons, mainly
located in three countries, Canada (210,000
tons), U.S.A. (195,000 tons), and South
Africa (180,000 tons), followed by Europe
(60,000 tons) and Australia (15,000 tons).
Two months later, Dr. J. A. Swartout, of
the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission,
forecast that annual western world require-
ments would be between 9800-16,700 short
tons in 1971 rising to 22,700-33,800 tons
in 1975, with a rapid acceleration to
between 43,500 and 59,200 tons in 1980.
Mr. A. F. Lowell, uranium adviser to
Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation Ltd., recently
forecast that demand would continue to
rise sharply after 1980 until at least the
end of the century. He also emphasised
the likelihood of a future shortage of
low-cost reserves and urged companies to
intensify exploration in the interests of
long-term price stability.
Any early resurgence in demand for
uranium would obviously be welcomed by
MKU and United Uranium, whose
uranium treatment plants and mines are
now on a care and maintenance basis after
the fulfilment of their contracts with the
United Kingdom Atomic Authority in
1963 and 1961.
MKU will be by far the largest pro-
ducer in the future, since even after
delivering 4500 short tons of uranium oxide
valued at between SABO and SA9O million
under its first contract, it still has proven
reserves of over 7500 tons; of these
about 4680 tons are easily accessible and
within the boundaries of the present open-
cut design.
\ FACTOR which could affect MKU’s
ability to secure future contracts arises
from its indirect control by Rio Tinto
Zinc Corporation Ltd. through CRA. RTZ
also holds a controlling interest in Rio
Algom Mines Ltd., of Canada, which
has contracts or options to supply up to
12,000 short tons of uranium oxide to
the Canadian Government by 1971, partly
under the Government’s stockpiling pro-
gram. If world demand rises more slowly
than anticipated and if production costs of
Rio Algom are lower, RTZ might well
exert influence to secure any available
«rp H E search for uranium is on again
for the first time since the bottom
fell out of the market for nuclear
power,” the “Economist” reported last
week in an article outlining the sharp
increases in anticipated demand for
uranium in the next 14 years that have
followed last year’s matching of atomic
-aad thermal power costs in the U.S. and
U.K. It says that the renewed search
will show who is right: the Canadians,
who have maintained that uranium is
a scarce material and that prices must
go up, or the British negotiators, who
hold that uranium only looks scarce
because prospecting ceased when pro-
duction fell.
contracts for its Canadian rather than
Australian offshoot.
After producing about 580 short tons
of uranium oxide valued at about SAIO
million to satisfy its contract, United
Uranium estimates its proven reserves at
68 short tons but has additional areas
which it considers to have substantial
uranium potential, such as those at Pan-
danus Creek. As a result of the cessation
of this source of income with the com-
pletion of the contract in September, 1964,
the company incurred a net loss of $105,000
in its latest year to December 31, 1965
in spite of earnings of over $lBO,OOO from
gold and silver produced from failings at
the Moline plant. These operations also
have now ceased.
In the meantime the company is
actively exploring other mineral prospects
in the Northern Territory and by the end
of this year plans to commence produc-
tion from the old Mt. Evelyn silver-lead-
zinc mine only three miles from Moline.
COMMODITIES
Bleak Outlook for Copra
THE outlook for copra prices, down
almost one-third in the past 12
months, is bleak. Effects of the
weak market will be felt not only by
the Australian-owned planters but through-
out the Pacific islands economy.
Earlier this month copra prices levelled
out at around SUSIBS a ton. Consider-
able quantities are on the market unsold,
however, and any real recovery is some
way off. The market has slipped $4O this
year, and a steadier trend was due. The
current price compares with a seven-year
high of $284, set about a year ago.
Apart from the heavy supplies still
available from the Philippines and other
producers, the market has been depressed
by a recovery in Indonesian exports. The
Philippines, source of 60 percent of the
world’s copra, lifted output 15 percent
in the latest season.
The effect of price moves on locally-
based producers Choiseul Plantations
(Holdings) Ltd., Bali Plantations Ltd.,
Dylup Plantations Ltd., Makurapau
Estates Ltd., and Plantation Holdings Ltd.
—is confused by operations of the Copra
Board. The Board, a Government-
sponsored agency, handles output, paying
producers each month on the estimated
minimum price realisable, with a lump-
sum adjustment when final sales proceeds
are known. For this reason, some benefit
of last year’s price rise will be felt in this
year’s accounts, on payment of the adjust-
ment, cushioning the effects of the market
fall.
Cocoa Agreement
MEANWHILE steady progress is
being made toward an inter-
national cocoa agreement. This
week a UN conference will try to sort out
the consumers’ and the producers’ respec-
tive demands.
Basically the scheme envisaged is a


TRUCKS
TRAXCAVATORS
COMPRESSORS
CRANES
i
:
:
■J.&
liflilli
m
sMIs*
m
mm
EXCAVATORS
fM
EXPERIENCED OPERATORS
Hire aH the equipment and the
operators in one package
GO ONE-STOP-SHOPPING
AT BRAMBLES
818.8
1332
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CNR. TODMAN AVE. & DOWLING ST., WATERLOO.
663 0465
combination of a production quota and
buffer stock system. The size of the buffer,
the price range to be supported and source
of finance for initial operations are all
undecided.
On price, producers are generally
thinking in terms of £stg,lBo a ton
about present levels but consumers
incline toward something like £l2O a
ton.
Sugar and Cuba
CUBA continues its vociferous opposi-
tion to joining other sugar pro-
ducers in bargaining on export
quotas. This continues in the pattern set
by President Castro’s past pronounce-
ments on the sugar industry.
Early in April, Cuba withdrew its im-
plicit support for the major producers’
price stabilisation scheme only a month
after it had begun. Last week the Cuban
delegate to the United Nations talks on
sugar marketing said that he was pre-
pared to exchange information, but not
to bargain.
The talks were merely preliminary con-
sultations ahead of a full-scale conference
on re-establishing marketing controls of
the International Sugar Agreement.
Although Dr. Castro has in the past
talked of “liquidating our competitors” in
sugar production, it is not improbable
that Cuba will eventually join a quota
scheme. A show of independence at this
stage would be a handy weapon when-
bargaining eventually begins.
Both because the unofficial support
scheme has had little effect on prices
(which have fallen) and because Cuba’s
supplies for free market sale have been
limited, the cost of independence has so
far been small.
LeacbZinc in U.S.
AS “producer” and “free market”
prices fall, U.S. lead and zinc miners
are beginning to show signs of unrest
at the Government’s stockpile sales of the
metals. Within a few weeks producers
and Government officials will meet to
discuss the releases in the light of market
trends. Further releases are (or were)
probable, but would require Congressional
approval.
Recently, Peruvian miners issued a
statement seeking Australian, Mexican,
and Canadian support in an approach to
the U.S. Government with a plea for end-
ing of the release program. If stock-
pile sales were halted there seems little
doubt the price slide would be checked,
especially in America.
In the longer run, further falls seem
likely. Even without a continuation of
the downturn in U.S. car manufacture,
use of the two metals is on a barely
rising trend. In the first quarter this
year, for instance, U.K. use of both lead
and zinc fell by about 4 percent com-
pared with the first quarter of 1965.


New Issue
»HC
%
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNUM
DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes accepted only on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ‘WALES’ FOR DETAILS
ND.IB.N.
OUT NOW!
Proceedings of
People the North Committee
Symposium on Northern Development
at University of N.S.W.
260-plus pages Two dollars.
Papers by Dr. Rex Paterson, Dr. Bruce Davidson,
J Macdonald Holmes. R. H. Greenwood, C. S.
Christian, Dr. Harold Bell and other authorities;
discussion highlights.
Hon Secretary, PTN Sydney Committee, 26 Coola-
bah Crescent, FO RESTVI LLE, N.S.W.
Please sehd copy (copies) of PTN
Symposium proceedings. I enclose
payment at $2.00 per copy.*
Name
Address
Make cheques etc. payable to: PTN Campaign
Sydney Committee.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Email Faces Hard Time
THERE are more problems at Email
than the lower profit and reduced
dividend would suggest. The latest
annual report shows that Email is now
adopting a far less conservative approach
to its accounting than in the old days
and that even this has so far not been
able to hold the profit figures up.
With the company now facing much
higher borrowing charges (quadrupled in
the latest figures), the changed account-
ing approach does little to remove the
urgent need for Email to improve its
gross earnings by a considerable amount.
The prospect of this happening in the
immediate future is not bright.
The most striking of these changes in
approach is in the depreciation figures.
The latest provision against profits of
$815,000 is $33,000 below the previous
year’s, despite a rise in the cost of plant
and equipment by a further $320,000 to
$11.4 million.
Capital profits on the sale of assets
have boosted reserves and cash flow on
average $548,000 in each of the five
years to 1964, but in 1965 only $173,000
was available from this source. These are
usually applied to augmenting the provision
for increased cost of plant replacemetit,
which now stands at $4,418,000 compared
with the net figure of group plant and
equipment $2,607,000, being cost
$11,452,000 less depreciation $8,846,000.
This suggests that some of the plant is
either very old, or that the company has
been in the past impressively cautious with
its finances.
Other evidence supporting the view that
Email is not now in a position to be as
financially conservative as it has been
in the past is that for many years a sum
of slm. for provision for warranty on
goods sold and $1 million for
research and education have
appeared among current liabilities,
although Email has written off research and
education expenditure against profits each
Y ear - In future, directors intend to make
charges against the provision for research,
The H. G. Palmer debt of $186,000
relating to past years will be written off,
if proved unrecoverable, against the exist-
ing provision for doubtful debts, which
remained steady despite the state of the
appliance industry, and despite the in-
crease in both trade and hire-purchase
debts during 1965. Bad debts are not
specified in the profit and loss account,
Provision for fluctuation in stock values
was strengthened by a $146,000 transfer
from depreciation provision, and $102,000
from profits,
The raising of s3m. by debentures and
s2m. by term bank loans in 1965 has
strengthened liquidity (overdrafts fell by
$892,000) at the expense of the proprietor-
ship ratio, and the creation of an interest
burden for 1965 of $295,000. Had direc-
tors preferred to liquidate the poor-return-
ing listed investments, they could have
done with much smaller borrowing.
Although book value of listed securities
wa s more or less unaltered at $2,130,000,
their market value declined by over slm.
last year to sl.4m. Directors therefore
transferred an extra $380,000 for provision
f or fluctuations in their investment values,
bringing this provision to $430,000 against
total book value of listed and unlisted in-
vestments of $4,585,000.
Income received from these disappoint-
ing listed investments (including share-
holdings in McDonald Industries, Country
Television Services Ltd., and United Tele-
casters Sydney) fell from $llB,OOO to
$llO,OOO, ironically because of a drop in
dividend of Email itself, in which a sub-
sidiary has a shareholding. These give a
poor return of 4.2 percent on book value
and 2.75 percent on market value, indicat-
ing either that Email directors expect them
to do a lot better in future or that
there are other reasons for holding these
shares, especially as Email has to pay
a lot more to borrow money than it
receives from its listed investments.
But if Email has a poor record as an
investor in listed companies, it does very
well in investments in associated com-
panies, such as T. R. Services Pty.,
B.X. Plastics (Aust.) Pty., and Coramic
Aust. Pty., which contributed $326,000
to Email coffers, returning 13.3 percent
on their gross book value of $2,455,000.
In fact, outside activities were more
profitable to Email Ltd. in the 1965
year to December than its own diverse
electrical equipment business. Email’s own
trading profit fell from $819,000 to
$lBl,OOO (disallowing credits made in
respect of previous years), while income
from investments actually increased from
$384,000 to $436,000, so that total net
profit only fell by almost half.
Axing the five-year-old 10 percent divi-
dend rate to 6 percent for 1965 was no
more than was demanded by the changed
financial situation, it may take some time
to be restored.
The golden age for electrical equip-
ment makers of the 1950 s may never be
repeated. Email’s success then prompted
a one-for-one bonus, which in retrospect
meant over-capitalisation. It would prob-
ably need another bout of really buoyant
market conditions (and inspired manage-
ment) to bring back the good old days.
December 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
GrSfpTSflt (1) $OOO 2329 2760 2585 2633 1646
Tax SOOO 447 668 562 502 21^
Depreciation $OOO 838 841 804 848
Net profit $OOO 1044 1251 1219 1203 617
Earning rate percent 9 4 11_1 11 0 10 6 5.6
Dividend rate percent 10 10 10 10 6-
Earning rate on total , ,
funds Dercent 38 44 44 30 2.2
Current ratio 225 189 187 202 2.30-
Fixed assets $OOO 9058 8796 9011 8412 8889
Dividend yield _ , „ , . _ , _ ,
percent (2) 6.2 6.9 6.2 7.3 7.1
Price/earning
ratio (2) 17 2 14 4 14 7 14 4 15 2
Share prices: High (3) 93 91 99 85 51
Low (3) 70 70 72 40 38
(1) Profit before depreciation and tax.
(2) End of following May, month accounts presented.
(3) Following calendar yeat; 1966 to date.


Share
Far |
Dlv |
Year
Week
I Fri. | 1966 1
Turnover 1
Yield %
V^lue|
cents |
ago
ago
I close | High | Low
Syd. | Melb. |
Div.|{5arn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyie
.50
2
1 85
2 20,
2.16
2.35
1,90
1,6001 1,300
Ampol Exp.
. 50
—
1 20
1 33,
1 40
1 41
35
27,150
39.700
Mm.
.50
35
*1,00
5 35
5 00
5.52
4 80
2.70C
2,750
A.O G
.50
—
2 60
2 ‘10
? .35
2.60
2 25
4.450
4,600
b- H- South
.50
32
2. A3
2 50,
2.47
2.90
2.24
13,450
11,100
5 1
7.8
C.ft.A,
. 50j
3
3 30
4 821
4.80
4.90
3.92
8,350
18,800
1 7
4.4
C'wl'.h Min.
1 00
7
1.85
2.251
2.25
2 40
1.90
1,500
1,700
3,6
6.0
K l. Scheel
50
10
1 *19
2 00
1.82
3 25
1 80
2,500
1,900
MhUfU 15.3
.50
5
3.50
4 151
4.00
4 55
4 04
29,400
31,700
1.3
1.7
Mt, Morgan
1 00
12
1 85
2 28
2.22
2 49
1.90
3.100
B.500
5 6
10.7
Mt .yell
.15
2
.59
1.28,
1 32
1.46
1.25
5.000
14.600
1.9
4.1
New B.H
yd
22
4.28
4.70
4.70
3 83
3.30
6,300
2CO
6 5
9 2
O'l Search
.50
—
.19
■ IS
18
.19
.12
21.350
10,900
Renison
.50
10
5 80
7 00
7.14
7 50
5.90
600
650
Santos
25
—
2 20
2 501
2.6G
2.85
1.40
3,300
2,000
Weil. M'h.
50
10
2 60
4 10,
4.40'
4.40
2.45
37,900
38,400
2.3
2 5
'•Voodside
.50
—
30
58!
.65
.74
.24
30,600
40,600
INDUSTRIALS
A R.C
50
4 25; 1.03
1 05
1 03
1 10
1 00
b.100
7,400
4.0
9.2
Adams. W.
1.00
12 5
2 SO
2 40
2.90
2.30
1,100
500
b 2
12.5
Adel. Sieam
50
4.25
.70
68
68
.30
.64
4.400
3,900
6.3
8.0
Advertise'
.50
5
2.16
2 00
2 00
2 50
2 00;
2.5
4 8
Alien. S
1 00
10
1.95
1.94
I 70
2 101 1.70
200
5.9
8.8
Aii'ea MUs
.50
6
1.80
1 88
1 87
1 38
1 67
15,525
8.800
3 2
7.7
Amalg Chem
.50
5.51
1 00
.33
.82
1.50
.80
16,650
4.700
6.9
9.9
A.W.A.
.50
8
2.65
2.10
2.09
2.42
2,05
6.800
2.900
3.8
6.8
Ampol
.50
7
1.05
.86
7ft
1.02
.75
60.150
68,700
9 0
10 6
An sett
.50
5
.79
.75
.76
si
.73
.36,400
28.300
6 6
12 6
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
—
1.65
1 63
1 70
1 43
3,500
5.000
3 1
4 5
Assoc Pulp
1.00
9
1.461 1.49 1.40
J . 74
1 40
5.550
9,000
6 4
7,8
A. N .Z, Bank
2 50
30
5.10
6 00
6 00
6 Hi
5 65
100
3 0
5 6
A. ic Cement
.50
3
1.33
1 22
1 27
1.82
1.20
7,100
16.600
3 9
7.7
Aus!. Chem.
1 00
10
2.60
1 85
1 85
2 55
1 85
2.600
1.100
5 *1
7 5
A.C.I.
2 00
20
5.70
5 80
5 75
6.02
5 40
9,080
4,000
3 5
70
Auit.
2.00
20
5.05
4.60
4.80
5 20
4 10
800
500
3.3
6 C
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1 53
1 38
1.42
1 43
1 22
17,200
3,000
5 3
9 9
A.o.M.
1 00
8.75
3 15
1 57
1 60
1 87
1-51
19,200
27,500
5 4
9 0
A. Newsprint
2 00
20
3.30
5 20
3.25
3 45
3.15
500
1,800
6 2
6 7
A.'J.C.
1.00
10
4 SO
3.95
3 35
4 05
3 75
100
700
2 6
8.4
Bank Adel.
1.00
10
2 58
2 29
2.20
2 46
2 15
2,500
800
4,5
7 6
Ear... N.S.W.
2 00
20
5 30
5 20,
5 14
5 b8
5.02
28.430
3,950
3 9
7 4
Eullamlii
.50
5
1 70
2 15
2.15
2 44
2.00
700
2 3
7 8
1.00
15
2.75
3 25
3.25
3 30
3.00
2.450
4 6
9.9
E . M. 1.
.50
7 5
1 67
1 61
1.60
1.87
1.52
15,950
10,500
4 7
6.9
Bonds Ind.
.50
5
1.10
1 14
1 15
1 15
98
5.600
4.3
8.9
Boral
.50
10
2 45
2.10
2.01
2 40
2 00
15,450
10,200
5.0
6.7
Borg Warner
1 00
6
2.50
1 85
7.78
2.05
1.75
2.100
3.4
8.3
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
.68
.60
.59
.69
56
16,000
4,900
8.5
11.9
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.79
1.78
1.76
1 82
1.67
8.100
2,700
4.3
7 3
1.00
11
1 65
1.90
2.11
2 18
1.77
28,200
11,500
5.2
8 5
B.H P.
2 00
20 4
5 03
5.64
5 48
5.74
4 54
60.200
67,250
3.4
6.2
Bruck Mills
.50
5
.50
.65
.65
.73]
.55
600
800
9.6
13.1
Burns °hilp
1.00
10
3.83
3.72
3 85
4 10
3.65
5,650
1,100
2.6
6.9
C.Li B. "Z"
1.00
13
3.80
3.48
3 50
3 88
3 48
1,500
6,400
3. I
6.5
C3rp.. W P..
.50
7.5
2.55
2 51
2.57
2. 75
2.44
13,750
3,300
2.9
6 0
Carr.er Ai.*
.50
4
. 70
.62
.62
.80
.60
1,700
1,400
6.5
12 e
C'ma ne Perk
1.00
17
6.10
6.06
6 05
6 40
5 93
2,900
: S
5 2
Chamber lain
.50
6.25
1.38
1.23
1 25
1.38
1.231
7,200
5.0
23 7
Clyde Ind.
.50
7.5
1.08
1.00
.99
1.10
.99]
10,300
3,900
7 6
11 9
Coal. Allied
.50
5
.80
1.40
1 .43
1 45
1.26
5.800
3.5
9 7
Cotes, G. J.
.50
5 5
1.49
1.28
1.27
1 4!
1.20
31.650
57,400
4.3
6 c
C.S.R.
1 00
12 5
3.14
2.90
2 80
3.26
2.79
44.500
26,800
4 5
8 8
C.A.G A.
1 00
10
.82
1 36
1 31
1.65
1.30
7,200
600
7.6
12.3
C.C.C.
1.00
10
2.49
2 35
2 22
2.65
2 15
9.010
1,100
4.5
7.8
C.C.A.
1.00
10
2 30
2 15
2 16
2 22
2.02
5,100
2,200
4.6
6.6
Com. Union
50
4 25
1.43-
1.251
1 20
1.44
1.20
5,100
2,600
3.5
5.3
C.i.G.
1.00
11
2.53
2 70
2.68J
3.32
2.55
7,700
6.100
4.1
10.1
Concrete Ind.
.50
.36
.36
.35
.48
.26
70,850
16,500
12.9
Consol. Press
.50
6 25
3.20
2.60
2 65
3.40
2.60
2,150
3.8
7.5
ContaT.era
2.00
16
2 80
2 75
2 75
2.75
2.58
100
1,500
5.8
9 5
Con rt.s .i(d»
1 00
5
.90
.61
.63
.75
.57
3,600
7.9
10.8
Crane. G. t.
1 00
12.5
4.03
4 40
4 55
4.60
4.10
1,200
2.7
7.8
Cresco
2.00
20
5.70
6 40
6 30
6 80
5.80
3 2
7.2
Cust. Cred,
.50
5
70
68
.70
.79
.63
2,300
3,400
7.1
n.9
Cyclone
1.00
10
1.73
1 07
1 .07
1 48
1.04
1.850
3.200
9.3
22.2
Dalgety
2.50
30
5 15
4 66
4 66
5 00
4 60
200
5 5
10.3
D.F.C.
2.00
23
6 50
6.20
6 20
6 5i
6 20
300
3.7
7.6
C'rug Houses
1.00
10
1.70
1 73
1 65
1.93
1 58
9,700
5,100
6.1
a.7
Dunlop
1.00
8
2.00
1 40
1 33
1.65
1 24
12,800
22,900
6.0
9.9
e.v. j.
.50
7.5
7. 15
2 05
1 85
2 15
! 05
900
1.000
4 1
10.0
F Z Ind
1 00
ie
2.21
2 26
2.22
2 40
2.12
17,350
13.900
8.1
9 U
Elders, G M.
1 00
10
2 ie
2.36
2 35
2 3ft
2 01
7,650
4,200
4 i
9.5
Electronic “B'’
I .00
10
1 13
.90
.90
i 04
87
3,100
15,600
11.1
14 9
Email
.50
3
.63
.41
43
.51
.38
12,900
7,500
7.0
7 2
E.S.A.
2.50
25
4 65
5.43
5 40
5.70
5 20
2.7
8 0
Evans Deakln
.30
6.25
1 27
1 28
1 26
1 40
1 28
1,800
4.9
6 2
Fairfax, J.
.30
8.5
2 65
2 20
2.10
2 80
2.10
4,150
200
3.9
5.3
Fairymead
1.00
12
2.35
1.60
1.55
2 10
J 55
2,800
3.9
.50
5
80
.55
56
70
54
21,500
26,000
8 9
12.7
.50
6
1.77
1.31
1 30
1 40
1 23
2,700
8,600
4 6
8, ft
1 00
17.5
4.10
3.55
3 55
3 72
3.43
700
4 9
7.1
50
4
.53
.54
.52
6C
5C
: 6,400
14.20C
7.7
10 1
2 00
52
1.15
1.30 1 26
1 .38
.95
8,150
1,300
9 5
19.2
.50
4 5
.85
.80
81
88
7C
700
1,000
5 6
11.0
Gordon, Goleh
.50
10
2 80
2 40
2 40
2 70
2 25
200
1,700
4 2
6.3
Grac? Bros.
.50
6.25
1.70
1 74
1 77
1 91
1.69
7,200
3 5
6.7
hardie, J.
1 00
10
5.28! 4 65
4 60
5 06
4 40
B00|
2.2
b ■ 4
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SVDNEY
MELBOURNE
CihMilictUon
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
last
323.75
316.70
102.83
101.61
Ki Leaders .
—
—
107.49
105.50
Banks
165.09
165.55
110.87
109.78
OtKor Firr.
483.11
486.05
67.38
67.35
Pastoral
226.43
226.68
11B.B2
113.87
transport .
480.56
477.33
96.92
96.93
Retails (Merchants)
338.66
337.97
95.93
95.15
—
—e
43.59
42 78
166.26
165.70
101.16
100 64
T*»til*s . . ,
197-36
189.02
77.95
78 34
Chemicals . .
337.11
333 91
86.17
85 85
Eioctrlcal . . . .
428 64
427.18
62.84
62.02
Paper
—
—
104.02
103.77
Building
665.11
661.77
90.88
89.38
Fuel, ppwnr ■ ■
132.50
173.57
— ]
—
Automotive
743.74
739.95
80.61
77.87
St«rv1 (eng.)
446.11
435.10
111.28
108.36
Non-ferrous
1160.68
1139.14
195.31
191 87
OIL
SUGAR
Week
ago
Friday
Ust
Week
ago
Friday
•'as:
Melbourne . . .
Brisbane
110,67
13h 95
117.24
144.94
115.72
115.51
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
uatest
SYDNEY
averaga dividends .
6 07
MELBOURNE
dividend
5 42
earnings
8 5?
LONDON (F.T ;
dividend
5 26
earnings
7.11
NEW YORK [S &
P)
dividend
3 14
earnings
5. SO
C'WEALTH BONDS
Week
Bafcre
Friday
Short. 4 96
•1 9a
Medium ... 5.12
5.13
Lang 5 25
5 25
Share Par 1 Div
Value] cents
Year
1 ago
Week
i ago
| Fri.
| close
1966
High | Low
'
Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
Yield %
Div.|Earn.
Healing, A. G. .50
4
.69
.31
.20
58
191
65,550
55.600
20.0
42 5
Herald, W T. 50
12.5
4 35
4,56
4 62
5.22
4.35i
1,700
9,700
2 7
3.7
Hoofer, L J. 50
—
.36
.271 26
36
24
11,000
7.900
15.2
Humes i .00
12.5
3.00
: 2.25
2. 15
2.90
2.12
2,900
21,700
5.8
9.4
Huttons, .50
5
.93 .89
.90
1 00, 88
1,300
4,100
5 6
10 B
I.A.C .50
6
90
81
.80
83; 771
4,100
14,200 7 3
12 2
1.C.I.A.N.Z 2 00
15
465 4 lo
4,10
4 32
3 60!
7,250
11,300
3 7
5. 1
Inter. Resist, 50
6 25
1 43
.96 .911 1 45
.85
10,700 2,800
6 9
8.9
Jones, David 50
6 75
1.57
1 41| 1 40
J 63
1 38
24,500
7,500
4 8
8 6
Jones, Henry ) 00
10
3.83
3.63
3,47
4 10
3 50
2,700
2.600
2.9
8.3
Kauri .50
2
45
23
23
261 23
6,200
13 3
Kelvinator .50
7.5
2 30
3 97 1 95
2 081 1 92)
300
3.8
3.7
Koitak: .50
12 5
1 23
J .15
1 15
1 30
1 15
700
10 9
14 0
l.cnd Lease .50
' 5
93
1 18
J 17
1 25
1.01
10,600
9,600
4,3
7.7
Life 5avers 50
e
2.70
2 45
2 52
2 52
2.24
2,700
700
3.2
4 5
Lysaght, J 1.00
ii
2.73, 2 25
2 16
2.63
2.15
2,300
2,100
5.1
8.5
M.L.C. 2.00
31 10
8.70
5.16
0 18
0.40
7 66
4,475
6.300
3 9
3 9
MacRobertson 1 00
8
1 65
1 28
1 25
1 55
1 20
300
400
6 4
7.0
Marrlckville 50
7 5
1.35
1 39
3.39
1 55
1 22
7,400
1,000
5 4
6.2
M&uH Bros. .50
5
1 64
1 St
3 86
2.08
l 82
12,900
17.100
2.7
5.7
M. N icldess 1 00
12,5
3.38
2.35
2 90
3.20
2 70
1 000
700
4 3
6.2
MclUwrallh. J. 50
1. 5
1.65
1 25
3 25
1 50
1 24
1,000
6.0
10.8
McPherscrii 2 00
10.6
3.90
3.56
3 55
4 08
3 40
500
5,300
4 7
10 6
M Haquln 1 00
20
3.50
2.70
2 65
3 IS
2 60,
1,300
7 5 8.6
Miller, R. W 1.00
10
373
1.74
1.71
2 07
1.70
b,850
2,600
5 8
14.6
Minster 1 00
ZO
3.20
3 60
3 53
5.68
3 13
4,100
5,300
5.7
12.2
Morns, Philip 2,00
24
5 38
7.02
6.90
7.36,
6 20,
1,250
550
3,5
12.1
Moulded Prod. 50
5
89
.62
.65
.80
59
3,800
11,600
7.7
9 6
Myer .50
S .75
3 33
3 10
3.02
3 56
2.98
18,900
28,100
2.9
6 3
Myttons .50
b
1 58
1.53
1 53
1.64
1.42
8,600
3.9
8 5
N.Z. Fores’ 1 25
10
2 95
2 90
2 65
2 60
4,150
2.400
3 3
9 0
Nat. Bank. 1 OC
10
2 28
1 97
1 92
2.10!
1 92,
8,550'
10,700
5 2
5 5
Nat, Consol. 50
10
2 80
2.30
2 34
2 40
2 27
700
10,000,
4 3
8 2
Nat Dairy 2 60
1C3.5
42 00
38.001 37 50 42.00 37 50
20
2.6
5.7
News 50
5
1 47
1.47
1.53
1 82
1.47
'
400
? 3
6 8
N.Z. Ins j 25
13.4
3.03
2 70
2.70i
2.82
2. 70
'
5 0
6,3
Olympic 50
5
.95
69
.60
.80
.68
6,350
17.300
7 4
14 5
Optical 1 00
15
4.55
4 35
4.33
4. 711
4 10
550
3 6
7.2
Overseas 50
5.5
1.08
1 13
1.10
1 16
1 08
2.800,
7,100
5 0
10 2
P.G.H. .50
8
] 84
1 45
1.44
1.60
1.33
9 930
5 6
9 3
Pelco .50
8
1 54
2 06
2.03,
2 14
1.85
7,400'
4,200
3 7
6.3
Penfoids 50
6 25
1 47
1 58
1 .50
2.03
1.50
1,400
4 2
5 7
Perp. Trustee 2 00
17
3 76
3.80
3 80,
3.80:
3. S3
4 7
5.6
Petersvllle .20
2 5
53
5ft
59
64
55
19,800
203
4 2
6.2
Peters, W. A, 50
6 25
1 79
1 70' 1 76
3 92
1 . 70
3 5
6.0
Pioneer Cone. .50
6 2o
1 49
1.52
1.48
1.62
1 -42
1,900
4 2
0.0
Prestige .50
5
1.33
.92
95
1 05
80
2,700
1,100
6 6
16.9
Provincial T. .50
5 5
2.20
1.14
1 11
1.30
1.00
2.850
5 0
10.9
Pye 50
5
1 .95
1.30
1.33
1.55; 1 20
3,700
700
3 ft
13.5
O'land C3n .50
5
1.15
1 00
1 03
1 13
1 00
2,000
4 8
8.6
0'iand Cement 2.00
20
7.00
7.45
7.25
7.70
7 00
2 8
5.6
Q'land Ins. 1.00
12.5
3.70
4 25
4 18
4 26
4.00
3,750
3 0
? 1
Q'land Press 1 00
16
5,80
5 00
4.78
5 45
4.78
18
3 4
5.9
Reeds .50
7 .
2.00
1 53
1 53
1.74 1.48
1,400
4.6
7.6
Repco .50
7.5
2.20
2 08
2.0b
2.24
1.88
2,800
18,100
3 6
6.1
Rocla .50
7
2.20
1.92
3 92
2 14
1.78
3,400
3.6
6 4
Rothmans 1.00
20
3.55
2.90
2.88
3.15
2.68
500
1,500
6 9
13.5
S.A. Rubber .50
5 62
1 63]
1 08
1 09
1 25
1.00
300
1,500
5.1
1J2.9
S.T.P. Hold. .50
6 25
95
98
.93
1 00
88
1,400
3,200
6. 7
15 5
Schweppes .60
5 75
1 65
1.52
1.55
t 85
1 50
200
1,200
3.5
5.5
Sheheys 50
7 5
2 28
2 50
2 50
2 50
2.30
3 0
8.3
Simpson Pope .50
1
.45
.34
34
46
27)
2.9
9.0
Sleigh, H. C. 50
5
.75
63
59
.72
59
9,600
25.000
a 5
11.7
Smith, How. 2.00
24
4.98
2.50
2.45
2 57
2,43
3,300
800
4.1
7.0
Softwood 1 00
10
2.95
2 70
2.65
3.25
2.07
1,800
1,800
3 8
19.9
Sth. Brit Ins. 1 25
16.87
3.80
3.70
3.70
3 85
2.06
3,100
3.3
7 1
Steamships 50
6.66
99
99
98
1.05
38
13,200
2,000
6 8
11 0
Stedman, J. .50
7.5
1.85
1.70
1.70
1.88
1.65
2,800
4 4
8.2
Swan Brew. .50
3.38
2 43
2 34
2.36
2.50
2 21
4,100
12.700
2 8
3.3
Tara* .50
6
.95
3.34. 101
1 00
1,300
3,200
5.9) 10.0
Taubmans 50
8
1 50
95
.93
1.13
.90
2,500
700
8 6
10.0
tv corp. i.oo
20
2.80' 2 45
2.63
2.63
2.08
2,500
700
7.6
7.6
T bless .SO
.42
66
67
76
63
5,400
9.6
Tooheys .50
4.25
3 04
1 17
1 15
1 21
) 10
33.2.50
3 7
5 7
Tooth 1.00
15
5 03
5 18
5.12
5 36
4 90
9,982
3,300
3 J
4 4
Union Carb. 1 00
10
3 00
3 45
3.50
3.65
3 28
2,600
1,100
2 9
5 8
U.E. Box 63
6.3
1.33
1 30
1.38
1 .48
1 35
200
200
4 9
10 1
Walker. F. J. 1.00
12.5
1 53
1 28
1 32
1 63
1.25
3,050
9 5
9 7
Waltons .50
6 5
1.00
1 04
I 04
1 12
85
34,250
8,400
6.0
9 b
Webster, A, G. .50
8
1 23
1.37
1.43
1.43
1 25
300
5.2
10.7
Will' ms, F. W. 1.00
10
3 35
3 20
3.15
4.00
3.04
5,800
3.2
1,1
Wool worths -50
6
1 55
1.37
1.37
1.44
1.301
95,850
21,200
4.4
6.0
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Tear Ago
Month Ago
Week. Ago
This Week
Aluminium, ion . . . .
£ 19b
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wtre bars, ton
t 497V2
£711
£ 572%
£ 627%
Gold, oz.
£ 12/11/1%
£ 12/11/5%
E 12/11/6%
£ 12/11/71/2
Lead, cash, ton .
Silver, trci'. oz
£ 109%
£ 101%
£91%
£ 96%
m%d.
lll%d.
m%d.
111% d
Tin. cash, ton
£ 1570
£ 1373
£ 1344
£ 1348
Wolfram, unit, c.i.f.
£ 10%- £ 107/r,
£ 14%- £ 15%
f13-£ 14
E 13- £ 14
Zinc, cash, ton .
£ 119%
£ 102%
£ 94
£ 100
Wheat, Australian, ton
£ 25%
£ 26%
£ 26%
t 76%
Linseed Oil, ton .
1 97
£ 05%
£81%
£ B5%
Cocoa, 50 kilos ,
Cotton, American middling,
112/6
191/3
196/-
196/-
lb.
23.70d.
23.3d.
23.35d,
23 35d
Desiccated Coconut, ton . .
t 100
£ 137 %
£ 131
Rubber, lb. ...
217/(,d.
19 15/16(1
20 13/16d.
22%d
Sugar, ton
£ 22%
£ 20%
£ 20%
£ 20%
Tea. quality, In
4/4-6,a
475-6/3
4/6-6/9
Wool Tops 64s, lb . .
107d.
(All figures
120d.
in sterling)
ma.
117d
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
i
London
New
York | Tokyo
| "Financial Times I
Dow Jones | D . Jone*
inds.
Secs )
Gold :
Irvds. |
Rails |
Jan 3, 2966
1 33S.7
73 76
61 3 |
965 54.
247 3811430.13
>966 high
79 43.
o5 2 ;
995 15,
271.72:1588 73
1966 low
.. . - . | 337.3
76.931
S3 6
676 11|
228 5011412 98
Mth. au Q
. 1 343 60,
n 48|
53 401
949.33]
263 9811530 93
Wtc. ago
| 365.20
77 091
59.3
676 111
228 5011571 10
Latest .. . .
| 36* 7
77 251
60.0
676 B9|
226.08(1552.75
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
•INDUSTR' AL|
MINING
INDUSTRIAL!
MINING
Sales Value
Vol- S
1GOO | 1000
Sales | Value
Vol. | $
3000 | 1000
Sa'es 1 Value |
Vol, l 5 1
1000 I 1000 I
Sales ;
Vol.
1000 J
Value
5
10Q0
Week Before
Week to Friday
2 7 23 0'3-357.6j
2574 5|3423.5]
1008.3; 1081.4
1603.21 1036.5
2147 1 3090 1
1942 1 2729 1
331 1
265 |
775
677
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
fdhfd
2
FOR 7 YEARS
NEW ISSUE
Other rates and terms available see Prospectus for full
details. Prospectus and application form available from:
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
8980
SECURITY ANALYSIS
No Evidence of Any Growth
International Resistance’s fluctuating returns
IT is almost two years since I last
looked at International Resistance
'Holdings Ltd. and I include the com-
pany in this series because of its former
heavy dependence on the custom of com-
panies such as AWA, EMI, etc. Until last
year, the company gave the percentage of
its total sales which went to producers of
radio and television receivers each year
as follows:
Year to June 30, 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Radio and TV 49 49 34 35 32 26
Other 51 51 66 65 68 74
The company still gives an index fig-
ure (with 1950 as the base year), which
shows that sales have increased twelve-
fold in the past fifteen years. The follow-
ing series are on a base year 1958 and
therefore show the trends of the past
seven years:
Net profit
before tax, Adjusted
Year to depreciation earnings
June 30 Sales and interest per share
1958 100 100 100
1959 103 121 113
1960 129 152 120
1961 155 109 69
1962 115 103 56
1963 141 152 78
1964 152 117 48
1965 180 145 57
From the shareholders’ point of view,
the loss of the radio and television sales
was particularly unfortunate, for, from
the above series, it would seem that these
sales were far more profitable than those
to “General Industry.”
Today, after a rather prolonged flurry
which took the share price up as high
as $1.48, the shares are selling around
$l.lO. At this price the dividend yield is
5.7 percent and the earnings yield based
on the 1964/5 figures would be 7.4 per-
cent. The company has already stated
that sales and profits were down in the
first half of 1965/6. Sales were down by
6 percent, but the extent of the fall in
profits was not given. Sales have only
suffered a setback on one previous occa-
sion and that was in 1960/1 when they
fell by 11 percent. On that occasion net
profit before tax, depreciation, and inter-
est fell by 28 percent and earnings per
share by 42| percent.
Since June 30, 1961, the company
seems to have spent about $2.1 million
on capital expansion. It did acquire
Precision Electronics Pty. Ltd. by an
issue of shares plus cash in 1963; the
capital assets that were included in this
acquisition would form part of the $2.1
million. Most of the funds needed to
finance this capital expansion would
seem to have been provided by ordinary
share issues. If one guesses at the premium
on the private placement of shares made
in 1962 as being at least $l.OO (the low-
est price at which the share sold in 1962
was $1.42), the raisings have been as
follows:
s’ooo
March, 1962, private placement at $1.50 .. 180
September, 1962, rights issue 2-for-5 at $l.OO . . 1648
September, 1963. for Precision Electronics at $1.70 107
December, 1963, to superannuation fund at 50c 4
Total 1939
During this same period, it would
seem that approximately $505,000 was
provided by retained profits, $892,000 by
increases in loan capital, and $604,000 by
increases in current liabilities, making a
total of $2,001,000. It becomes clear,
then, that nearly fifty percent of funds
that have been invested in the business
have been invested in current assets.
This prompts a comparison of the
trends in sales and stock and debtors.
Taking the five-year period, because
prior to the 1961 accounts the figures
seem to have been presented on a differ-
ent basis, the series for these three items
becomes as follows:
Year to June 30, 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Sales 100 100 122 132 156
Total of stock and
debtors 100 111 122 148 164
Stock 100 111 132 153 180
Debtors 100 112 105 140 139
The conclusion that one could come
to from these figures would be that the
company is forced to make more and more
to carry as stock. The figure for debtors
seems to be quite consistent with the in-
crease in sales volume.
In the 1964 chairman’s address, it was
stated that “Satisfactory progress has been
made during the year (1963/64) with
several major projects . . .” and “The
year under review was marked by im-
portant changes in location and organis-
ation for the manufacture of some pro-
ducts.” The 1965 address suggested that
the expansion program wa& continuing,
for it was stated that a further $1,550,000
was raised during the year to finance the
expansion program. It was also stated
that the directors were expanding the pro-
duct range.
The return on capital employed, as


J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North,
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
If its
Banking!
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
measured by the ratio of net profit be-
fore tax, depreciation, and interest on
long-term debt to shareholders’ funds plus
loan capital, has fluctuated quite widely
over the last four years and it would be
impossible to suggest any trend. Similarly,
earnings per share after' adjustment for
the bonus content of the two-for-five
rights issue in September, 1962, have hot
shown any clear trend. If earnings are
adjusted on to a pre-tax basis they would
show a trend as in “A” below and if
they are adjusted on to a pre-tax and
depreciation basis the trend would be as
in “B”:
Year to June 30, 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
"A” 100 81 114 70 83
"B” 100 88 112 83 103
The most that can be said about these
figures is that the profit position is per-
haps a little better than the adjusted
earnings situation would suggest, but there
is still no evidence of any growth. It
may well be that this growth will come
as the current expansion program nears
completion, yet, as there is no indication
as to the likely completion date, one can
hardly guess at the probable date when
per share earnings might start to move
upwards.
With all possible allowances that can he
seen from the published accounts, earn-
ings per share in 1964/5 could not have
exceeded 8.3 cents. We have noted that
the companies previously reveiewed seem
to be selling at around eleven times earn-
ings. This would suggest that the ordinary
shares of International Resistance are
worth about 91 cents unless they merit a
premium over, say, AWA’s shares of
twenty percent.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES ($’000)
Year to June 30, 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 2684 3046 3684 4068 4544
Current
liabilities 1296 1982 1166 1874 1900
Net working
capital 1388 1064 2518 2194 2644
Land and build-
ings 2360 2452 2496 2430 2722
Plant and
machinery 1520 2012 2250 2762 3280
Investments 20 18 18 18 42
Intangibles 330 338 338 412 423
Total capital 5618 5884 7620 7816 9111
Represented by:
Loan capital 1010 938 800 704 1902
Preference capi-
tal 200 200 200 200 200
Ordinary capital 2000 2060 2884 2920 2920
Reserves 2408 2686 3736 3992 4089
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES ($’000)
Interest on loans 53 74 70 59 94
Depreciation 134 178 222 226 309
Tax provided 264 174 308 214 266
Preference divi-
dend 15 15 15 15 15
Earnings 404 376 592 410 475
Ordinary dividend 250 258 360 365 365
Surplus 154 113 232 45 110
Earning rate
percent 20 2 18 6 22.7 14 0 16.3
Dividend rate
percent 12.5 12 5 12.5 12 5 12 5
Dividend yield
percent 36 37 38 39 48
High price 1.98 1 92 1 90 2 00 1 48
Low price 1 45 1 42 1.42 1.22 1 12


INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CREDIT CORPORATION
OF AUSTDAUA UNITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF $4,000,000 DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a.2 YEARS
7%
p.a. 5 YEARS
T*%
p.a.7 YEARS
7l*
p.a. 10 YEARS
SHORT TERM STOCK ALSO AVAILABLE 3,6, 9 AND 12 MONTHS.
Applications may proceed only on the form attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is obtainable from:
any member of a recognized stock exchange
any branch of the A.N.Z. Bank Ltd.
any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
any office of IHCC of Australia Ltd.
any branch of lan Potter & Co.
Underwriters: lan Potter St Co. and Australian United Corporation Ltd. hi77s.d<«
Comparing Share Prices
The notion of relative strength
BY GERALD LAURANCE
THE “bar” and “point” charts which
have so far been described pertain
to the behaviour of a particular share
in isolation from all other shares. They
are of little use in studying the be-
haviour of one particular share in relation
to a group of other shares —unless charts
of all those other shares are readily avail-
able. Even then the process of com-
parison would be laborious without the
use of special equipment.
An alternative way of doing this would
be to compare the behaviour of the share
in question with an index representing
the behaviour of all the other shares with
which the comparison is desired. In
this way a comparison of Woolworths, for
example, can be made with the stock
exchange index for the trade and services
group of shares, or for that matter with
the index for all ordinary shares. It
will thus become apparent whether the
particular share is moving with the trend
or against it. In the latter case it may be
interesting to look for the reason.
What is described above is the basic
method of ascertaining the strength of a
share relative to others its “relative
strength.” Here again the data obtained
may be left as a simple column of figures,
but the result may be more graphic if
portrayed on a chart.
The actual figure to be shown on such
a chart is that obtained from dividing the
price of the share by the index with
which it is to be compared. Or if there
is no appropriate index group, then it
can be divided by the total obtained by
adding together the prices of the other
shares. To overcome the distortions
which may occur due to daily or weekly
fluctuations, either in the share of interest
or the others, it may be preferable to
average the figure obtained over a period.
This can be done by using some kind
of “moving average,” which is a method
of smoothing the short-term bumps out
of any series of numbers’. A 30-day moving
average would be the figure obtained by
adding the figures for the past 30 days
and dividing by 30; then each day the
latest figure is added on to the total
and the first figure taken off, so that
the total never contains more than the
sum of 30 days’ figures.
The same can be done, of course, for
any chosen length of time, but it is clear
that the process is quite laborious. For-
tunately, there is a short cut, which
simply avoids the process of dividing. By
keeping a note of the total figures for
each period of, say, 30 days, the same
result is available by using the totals
only, after adding the latest figure and
subtracting the first figure.
In using this type of chart to compare
one share with others it is less mislead-
ing to use the same kind of proportional
scale as is necessary for a bar chart. But
this refinement is not so important when
using a moving average on its own, or
in conjunction with a graph of the actual
price of a share. A chart showing the
relative movement of one share to others
is probably the only way, unless one is
possessed of an extraordinary memory, of
seeing which shares respond more quickly
or slowly than others to changes in the
overall trend of prices in an industry or
in the market generally. 'lt will also show
which shares in a group respond most
in an overall rise or fall, as well as those
which are more sensitive than others.
Whether or not such charts provide a
base for valid prediction, they would cer-
tainly be of use, for example, to the in-
vestor who is looking for a share which
is representative of an industry and which
will respond well to the fortunes of that
industry.
[This is the third of a series of four
articles on the use of charts for invest-
ment decisions. The two previous articles
were “How to Read the Charts ’ (B.
May 14) and “Point Charts and Their
Use” (B. May 21). The series will be
concluded next week.]


LLk
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE ’
AVIS
RENTA CAR
hfd
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
i
PLY AND DRIVE IN '66. It's time saving . . . money saving
. . . worry free! There's no with Avis. Step out of
the plane, into your car and off! Drive one of the great new
Falcons or other fine cars of the Avis fleet. It's the jet age
way to travel. Book your Avis car when you book your flight.
Avis honours Ansett-ANA credit cards.
VNVU3SNV
A VIS RENT-A-CAR
1396/83/69
MAN ON THE LAND
Dairy Produce for Asia
AN entirely private enterprise arrange-
ment between a Victorian dairy
produce firm and the Hong Kong
Dairy Farm Ice and Cold Storage Co.
Ltd. should mean an almost immediate
increase in exports of Australian dairy
produce to Asia. We need these exports.
It is useless kidding ourselves that there
is a real future for Australian dairy
exports to Great Britain and Europe. It
seems logical to assume that Britain will
go into the Common Market sooner or
later. Sooner than later, in our opinion.
Quite apart from this, the joke about
Kangaroo butter being made from the
milk of kangaroos is merely a cover-up
to the real problem facing Australian
butter in the U.K. The real problem, for
us, is that British dairy farmers are
demanding, and getting, a bigger share
of the home market. Butter is high on the
promotion list. Currently there is a
$200,000 campaign being launched to boost
sales of British butter and cream at the
obvious expense of Australian butter.
Danish and Dutch butter, because of
quality and price, are in a better position
to survive in Britain than our own Dairy
Board Kangaroo brand. From the Com-
mon Market viewpoint also, the Danish
and Dutch butter has a bright future.
When the Common Market finally arrives,
one of the blessings the English will prob-
ably be able to console themselves with
will be that they do ndt have to eat Kan-
garoo any more.
Export to Asia is the alternative, yet
theie’s nothing new in that. It has be-
come an Australian bandwagon. Profitable
export to Asia is what is needed.
The link between K. L. Ballantyne
Pty. Ltd., of Melbourne, and the Hong
Kong Dairy Farm Ice and Cold Storage
Co. Ltd. has been negotiated on the
assumption, by both parties, that the ven-
ture will be profitable. It is important to
stress that the Department of Trade, De-
partment of Primary Industry, and the
Australian Dairy Produce Board are not
involved in this deal.
The Dairy Produce Board has its eye
on Asia also but, to date, its ventures
have not been very successful if profit-
ability is considered. It is heavily involved
in a reconstituted milk plant in Manila
and, with local capital, in two others in
Bangkok and Singapore. The Board could
not be accused of the profligacy that has
characterised the Wool Board, for instance.
Nevertheless the reconstituted milk plants
have caused, and are causing, much con-
cern. *
About $2 million is said to have gone
down the drain in Manila. Yet the pro-
duct is said to be good, appreciated by
consumers, and long-term prospects may
not be all that bad.
Over a long period of time we have got
rather used to boards, of various kinds,
making extravagant claims. The Depart-
ments of Trade and Primary Industry, like-
wise. The great ventures somehow never
quite seem to live up to expectations.
Exactly the opposite may well apply
in the case of this latest private enter-
prise venture. It may turn out a lot
bigger than it sounds. Ballantyne’s have
announced that they will export cheese,
butter, and casein to Hong Kong in in-
creasing quantities (they have been doing
this for 30 years). But they have been
careful to make no mention of UHT, or
“six months milk.”
It will surprise us greatly if UHT is
not in the minds of Ballantyne’s and
Hong Kong Dairy Farm Co. The advan-
tage of this milk will be that it could be
produced in Australia, free from the worries


Dear Mr.Akubra:
It’s time you met
these
business men
\
These are nice hats , but they're not
yours—why ?
AND
MARKETING
[CONFERENCE
The men in conference behind these doors are
building today’s business. You may or may not
know them, but judging by their hats,
they’ve never heard of your product. Don’t you
think it’s time they did?
There are thousands of businessmen like them in
the Sydney and Melbourne viewing areas, and
being very conscious of the importance of their
personal image, they buy thousands of hats.
How many of these are yours? Could you do
with more?
The two “Nines” can put your name before
the nation’s largest captive audience . . . seven
nights a week.
And they’re all potential buyers—wide
open to the potent selling skills of the two
“Nines,” which are always at your service.
Interested?
Channel
4>
T
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
TCN-9 SALES—Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street. 61-9931.
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.
GTV-9 SALES Melbourne: 22 Bendigo Street. 42-0201.
Sydney: 54 Park Street. 61-9931.


PROBLEM
How to brand
an outboard motor
ANSWER
A DRI-MARK MIRRO-CAL
Nameplate
mm
a—a
■ :
’
m
-jiS&*»
■ J-
a*
mmmmm
...
«0/lf|
son
a «
* a
■MU
Outboard Marine choose DRI-MARK to identify and decorate many
outboard motors in their wide range.
DRI-MARKS are self-adhesive nameplates with the beauty of highly
polished, mirrorized Mylar* plus these other advantages Selex
DRI-MARKS are applied in seconds . . . they're inexpensive . . . and
resistant to salt water corrosion and the solvent action of petrol.
Available only from Selex Decal Pty. Ltd., or their overseas associates.
SELEX DECAL*
do amazing things with TRANSFERS
MELBOURNE: 61 3211— SYDNEY: 43 0221
OVERSEAS ASSOCIATES:
Canada Decalcomania Co. Ltd., Toronto
The Meyercord Co., Chicago
Decal Transfers (N.Z.) Ltd. Auckland
*
The words Decal, Dri-Mark, and Mirro-Cal, are registered. Mylar is a registered trademark of the duPont Co.
of Asian politics and strange business
customs (graft, if you like). The Hong
Kong firm would be in a good position
to distribute this milk throughout Asia.
The firm is not only a dairy produce
distributor but is solidly entrenched in
the restaurant, supermarket, fishing, and
ship and airline providoring businesses.
It is the biggest firm of its kind in the
East and Ballantyne’s is the biggest in
its line in Australia.
It is the biggest individual exporter
of butter (apart from the Dairy Board
and its Kangaroo brand) and it draws its
supplies from the two biggest butter pro-
ducing co-operatives in Australia
Drouin and Korumburra.
Here we have a rather good illustration
of a viable arrangement between well-
organised farmers and a well-equipped
private enterprise distributor. This form
of arrangement is not, in itself, unique
by any means. The quality of this par-
ticular one may be. Under the terms
of the arrangement Mr. R. F. White,
managing director of the Hong Kong
Dairy Farm Co., joins the board of K. L.
Ballantyne Pty. Ltd. Ballantyne Hold-
ings Ltd. will be registered, with Mr. Keith
Ballantyne as chairman, Also the Dairy
Farm Co., in conjunction with other over-
seas firms, will extend its activities by
establishing operations in Melbourne. In
the company to be formed, a minority
shareholding will be held by the
Ballantyne family. When this company is
registered, Mr. White will be chairman.
WHAT will the “operations in Mel-
bourne” be? Ice-cream and frozen fish
seem logical predictions. Whether this
move succeeds as well as expected is
rather, we think, beside the point. It
is Asia or nothing where dairy produce is
concerned.
Sir Alex Downer, we think, hit the nail
right on the head with his speech to the
Australian-British Trade Association in
London. He caused some heartburning
in Department of Trade circles but the
Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, apparently had
no reservations about backing him up
right to the hilt.
Sir Alex said: “The abandonment of
Commonwealth preferences and not only
their abandonment but their substitution
by import tariffs on Australian produce
would naturally destroy a sizable pro-
portion of our trade.” He mentioned, in
the right Order we believe, dairying, canned,
fruit, wine, and wheat.
It is perfectly true that agriculture is
the main area of doubt in British minds
where the Common Market is concerned.
But there are precedents which would
indicate that agriculture would be ignored
if it was considered necessary for the good
of the British nation as a whole. There
is no counterpart of the Country Party
in British politics.
The EEC, and Britain in it, is on. Mr.
Wilson has assured us that he would not
stand for a 60 or 70 percent tariff on
Australian wheat. That’s comforting, isn’t
it? What then, do you suppose, he
would stand for?


PRINCIPAL
ROYAL MELBOURNE
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
R.M.I.T. is the largest and oldest Technical Institute
in Victoria and at present has almost 3000 full-time
and 17,000 part-time students. Plans are under prepara-
tion which will result in an almost complete re-building
program involving a multi-million dollar expenditure.
DUTIES: The Principal’s major responsibilities will be
the overall administration of the Institute; advising
Council on the plans and progress of the re-building
program; developing close personal contact with govern-
ments, industry, the public service and with other
teaching and academic institutes; maintaining the
highest educational and academic standards.
QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants should possess a degree,
preferably a higher degree, in Science, Engineering or
other appropriate branch of learning. They must have
attained a senior executive position in industry or,
alternatively, one of senior responsibility in education,
the public service or the armed services. The successful
applicant will take a leading role in the development of
the Institute during its re-building and re-organisation
and must therefore have the personal qualities to exert
a positive influence regarding its financial and staff
requirements.
CONDITIONS: The appointment will be made at a
salary not less than $A11,500 per annum. Candidates
can obtain other details upon request.
All applications will be treated with strict confidence
and must be received not later than June 13, 1966.
Please forward a typewritten application plus one
copy to:
The President,
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology,
124 Latrobe Street, Melbourne, Cl.
AGRISEARCH
The Economics of Worm Control
Results from a practical trial
MR. STUART ADAMS is the first Australian sheep farmer
to know, quite accurately, how much he made out of
drenching his sheep for worms. He also knows which of
the drenches currently available put most money in his pocket.
And he even knows how to go about finding out in future
whether any new drug that might come on the market will
stand him in better stead financially than any of the existing
ones, no matter what the manufacturer may claim about its
“efficiency.” The facts and figures of his case provide a
valuable guide for others and also pose some curly questions
about the whole rationale of worm control.
Mr. Adams owns “Willow Run,” a 460-acre wool property,
carrying about 1400 medium-wool merinos, near Finniss on
the eastern fringe of the Southern (Adelaide) Hills district.
The area is not generally considered to be “wormy” and the
standing recommendation, in fact, to South Australian sheep-
men is that routine drenching is not economic. However,
Mr. Adams obtained some evidence that his young sheep at
least were suffering sufficiently seriously from internal parasites
to warrant treatment. He gave it and found that the net
value of the first year’s wool production of each sheep drenched
with (1) thiabendazole monthly was $3.77, (2) napthalophos
monthly was $3.66. (2) napthalophos every second month was
$3.73, and, (4) phenothiazine monthly was $2.97. The control
sheep, i.e., the flockmates that received no treatment, returned
$2.22 per head. The difference between this figure and the
others is the real value of the respective drench because they
are derived from a complete record of actual monetary costs.
This news was released at the 43rd annual conference of
the Australian Veterinary Association, which was held last week
in Adelaide. Mr. Adams made his property and sheep avail-
able to vets A. W. Banks and C. Hall of the Institute of
Medical and Veterinary Science, Adelaide, and A. Korthals of
Henry York and Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. They conducted this
careful, farm-level investigation of the economics of worm
control and announced the detailed results. They stressed
that the possibly over-precise figures above really indicate that
the first three treatments listed are of equal value and better
than phenothiazine, which nevertheless earned for Mr. Adams
a worthwhile return. This ranking remains the same regard-
less of whether it is based positively on the value of the
extra wool grown or negatively on the value of the sheep
that died due to worm disease. No animals that got thiabenda-
zole or napthalophos died, but sheep worth a total of $6.25
and $23.75 in the phenothiazine and control groups respectively
were lost.
Apart from keeping close tab on everything needed to
enable an accurate and comprehensive balance" sheet to be
drawn up for Mr. Adams’ property, the vets kept a regular
record of the liveweight of the sheep getting the different
treatments. On average, thiabendazole-drenched sheep were the
heaviest. But after them came the phenothiazine-drenched sheep,
closely followed by the once-a-month naphthalophos sheep. Then,
appreciably lighter, came the bi-monthly naphthalophos sheep,
and finally the controls. We have seen, however, that Mr.
Adams’ account book showed that thiabendazole is no more
valuable to him than naphthalophos, which certainly contributed
more to his new car (supposing he had bought one) than
phenothiazine. Similarly, it has often been shown that
thiabendazole lowers the egg-count more than the other drugs.
So! Of what importance is this fact to the farmer? This
particular case underlines the need in future to assess worm
drugs from the standpoint of farm economics rather than
from pharmacological criteria.
Shock Effects
WHILE being machine-milked, cows are often subjected
to small electric shocks which grievously affect production.
A dairy scientist at New Zealand’s Ruakura Agricultural
Experiment Station first drew attention to this fact. He reported
that one farmer’s herd yielded an extra 60001 b. butterfat during
the year after the shocks were stopped. In this instance
there was only a three-volt difference between the milking
machine claw-piece and the ground. Generally, the New
Zealander found that shocks of this order, slight though
they be, cause a herd’s production to fall by 10 percent. Ner-
vous cows and those with small cracks in their teats may give
less than half their normal amount of milk and dry-off
prematurely.
Following this warning, the Victorian Department of Agri-
culture has inspected 60 dairy farms at random looking for
electrical leaks in the milking machines. Among this number
they found nine in which a stray charge of three volts or
more appeared. Some had milk-line voltages of 22 volts.
It would be costly to eliminate the basic cause, which stems
from the breakdown transformer being placed too far away
from the milking shed. However, the Victorian Department’s
dairy husbandry officer, G. A. Mein, who has studied the
problem, has devised cheap and simple remedies.
For existing sheds he recommends drilling holes through
the concrete floor near each bail and driving a three-foot
length of pipe into the earth below. A low-resistance wire
is then used to join the pipe and the milk-line. The efficacy
of this earth can be improved if a few gallons of brine are
poured down the pipe initially and the soil is kept moist sub-
sequently. This will happen automatically if the hole in
the concrete is made a little larger than the pipe so that
wash water can seep down.
For new sheds Mein suggests pouring the concrete on steel-
reinforced mesh, which can be welded to the bail supports.
It should also be welded to a metal flange fitted around the
perimeter of the floor. This entire system is then connected
by low-resistance wire to the milk-line. Since the Victorians
reckon that milk-yield drops of 20-25 percent, i.e., even higher
than those found in New Zealand, result from cows being
shocked while being milked, the suggested improvements which
involve only a few dollars and a few hours of work seem
well worth adopting.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To; DENNIS RANDOLPH ASTLE. Take
notice that GLADYS ASTLE has filed a
Petition No. 1188 of 1966 for Divorce on
the ground of Separation and seeks orders
for custody, maintenance, and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before tne 21st day of June, 1966. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. EDGLEY, BROWN
& SENDERSON, Solicitors, 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Regis-
trar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURIS-
DICTION
To: JUDITH ANNE WONG, address un-
known. Take notice that MICHAEL KIT
KA WONG has filed a Petition No. 3816
of 1965 for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
24th day of June 1966. You may obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from JOSEPH P. SHARAH & CO., of 141
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: KEVIN ANTHONY CLUNE. Take
notice that JOAN MARGARET CLUNE
has filed a Petition No. 4661 of 1965 for
Divorce on the ground of desertion and
seeks orders for custody and costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before the 15th day of June, ISS-3.
You may obtain a copy 'of the Petition
without charge from Messrs. ALFRED R.
PARKER & HENNINGHAM. Solicitors,
29 Bligh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: HENRY BRIAN FROST formerly of
Bondi Junction. Take notice that PAT-
RICIA MERLE FROST has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 594 of 1966 in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales on
the ground of Desertion and seeks orders
for custody, maintenance, and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mine
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 24th day of June, 1566. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. S. T. Hodge & CO.,
of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: LESLIE FREDRICK SAVAGE form-
erly of Bexley. Take notice that JANICE
BEATRICE SAVAGE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 843 of 1966 in the Supreme
Court of New South Wales on the ground
of Desertion and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance, and costs. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 24th day of June, 13 f 3S. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. S. T. HODGE & CO.,
of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: CHRISTODOULOS DEMETRIADES.
Take notice that SHIRLEY DEMETRI-
ABES has filed Petition No. 1403 of 1965,
for divorce on the grounds of Desertion
and Cruelty, notwithstanding the facts
and circumstances set out in a discretion
statement filed herein, and seeks orders
for Maintenance, Custody, and Costs of
Suit. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 30th day
of June, IS'S6. You may obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs.
J. F. Richardson and Co., Solicitors, 16
Barrack Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURIS-
DICTION
Number M.C. 43 of 1963
To: VIOLET DOREEN PRIEST formerly
of 186 Macquarie Street, Hobart, in Tas-
mania. T ake notice that CECIL ARTHUR
ALBERT PRIEST has filed a Divorce
Petition against you on the ground of
separation and take notice that if you
intend to defend the Petition, you must
file an Answer within 28 days of the pub-
lication of this notice at the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Mac-
quarie Street, Hobart, from which address
further information can be obtained other-
wise the Court may hear and determine
the proceedings in your absence. Dated
this sth day of May, 1936. C. C. BRETT-
INGHAM-MOORE, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: TERRENCE PETER BONNYMAN
late of 23 William Street, Stockton, in
the State of New South Wales. Take
notice that ANITA ABELHEID BONNY-
MAN by her guardian ad litem ADEL-
HE-ID BRONISLAWA ANNA SMOLAREK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 484
of 1966 on the grounds of desertion and
seeks orders for custody, maintenance, and
costs. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before the 24th June, 1956, and you
may obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from Messrs. A. E. McINTOSH &
HENDERSON, Solicitors, of 185 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, city agents for
Messrs. BRIAN MORONEY & CO., Soli-
citors, of 432 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 900
ACROSS
1. A sweeping disguise to her pacifier like this other
attachment. (7)
4. Tapioca from this Timberlane Gardner. (7)
8. Passion of the kings in Italy. (3)
9. Francis the essayist slighted by this rasher pro-
ducer. (5-6)
10. She rules in an order given by some seaman to the
first Queen Elizabeth. (6)
11. Worked as a feller proceeded heavily. (8)
13. Glassy ruin he lay in! (7)
14. Take a spouse at a salty
novelist. (7)
17. A major Japanese island. (7)
18. Resign and disgorge. (5, 2)
19. New Year swineherd and no
contradiction. (8)
21. Joker on strike is conform-
ing to some popular fad.
(4, 2)
23. Disorderly poem given on a
gambit. (7, 4)
24. Colorless cake-burner of his-
tory. (3)
25. A Spinster of Arts in the
manner of the foundation.
(7)
26. Faithful dog locating head-
gear in successful services.
(7) DOWN
1. Slow bowling distresses types
of green vegetable. (9)
2. The state of Mother of Ten?
05)
3. Contest in the human species.
(4)
4. It’s perfect to look over the
total spouse. (10)
5. Courage not to be expected
of this petty cracker. (5)
6. In pursuit of Mrs. L. 8., this
being exactly to my liking.
(5, 2,3, 5)
7. First-class Marxist treated to
ventilation. (5)
9. Conveyance concealed nothing
but Japanese chivalry. (7)
12. Her steady fellow who’s
“white.” (7, 3)
15. Age is giving heart to this
to lift once more. (2-5)
16. Court officers don’t leave the
work forces without gratui-
ties? (9)
19. A great 20th-century des-
troyer. (1-4)
20. Airy-fairy? (5)
22. Firm parent in a deep stupor.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 899


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for ....
SPECULATORS DIARY
Letter from Wall Street
And some local exhilaration.
IT’S always interesting to see what brokers in other countries say when their market
begins to crash. “The bull market is still intact,” declared a Wall Street broker
in his market letter received here this week.
He went on to say, in a rather frighten-
ing analogy, “Reactions of 10-15 percent
occurred at least four times during the
last year of the 1929 bull market.” And,
somewhat testily, “The present over-
emotional panicky response to already-
discounted news suggests most strongly
that stock prices are at or near an lm-
portant bottom.” And so on. Which
goes to show that brokers are the same
the world over optimists. That was
written on May 11, when the Dow Jones
index was 895. As I write this, I see
it’s down another 30 points.
However, one comment that broker
made I liked—“ Minor panics are always
exhilarating.” Indeed they are, and so are
stock markets generally.
Here in Sydney, Woodside has been
providing me with quite some exhilaration.
Having bought at 13 cents and sold at
20 cents two weeks back, I bought in again
last week at 25 cents when those “little
Woodies” began to look firm again after
the call had been paid. (This may now
read like a convenient piece of hindsight,
but the contract notes are available for
inspection on request!)
So you can imagine my exhilaration
when, having crept up to 30 cents, little
Woodies took right off for 40 cents. I
bailed out on the way up, at 38 cents,
although my broker did prevail on me to
keep just 500. I’m glad he did. By
the e nd G f t h e same day they were 42
cents! Profit on the 1500 was sufficient
to f or o ther 500. with $4B left
ovgr
'
Wunderlich, Tooth, and Kathleen Invest-
ments also contributed to this week s
excitement. Wunderlich’s profit rise of
33 percent was actually a little less than
I’d expected. Being one of those optimists
referred to above, I was hoping for a
profit rise of something more like 50
percent. So immediately the result was
announced I sold, expecting to get $2.80
at the most. Instead I got $2.85 and made
a P r °ht ol $2/.
The “Toose” result was more as I’d
expected: just a fractional increase in both
profit and dividend and still no sign of
that, famous bonus. Plowever, so far the
shares have not reacted enough to make
it worth my while to buy back the 200
I’m short. But I’ll have to do something
this week as I don’t like being short any
stock more than a fortnight. (The very
mention of the word “short” makes the
chairman of the Melbourne Stock Ex-
change faint, I understand.)
The Woodside and Wunderlich suc-
cesses boosted my morale sufficiently to
face up to my Cottees loss. I sold when
they recovered to $2.65. The loss came to
$B7. Ugh!
Another bit of unpleasant news was pro-
vided by Kathleen Investments, which
startled me w r ith plans for another pre-
mium issue, only three or four months
after the previous two issues. Mercifully,
the market wasn’t taken aback as much
as I was. (Notice, incidentally, how the
market is reacting well to bad news. It
was the same with Ampol. When stocks,
or the market, don’t fall much on bad
news it’s supposed to be a sign that hap-
pier times are not far off.)
But to return to Kathleen Investments.
True to my earlier resolve, I bought an-
other 100 shares, making my holding 200.
I still intend to buy more either when the
result is announced or during the actual
issue. That’s averaging down, if ever there
was, yet I still think Kathleen will prove
to be a good bet among the diversified
mining stocks. Of course, I’m still tearing
out my few remaining shreds of hair over
selling my Western Mining at $3.12, a
whole dollar or more below the current
price. However, I have few complaints
with the mining market. It’s been very
kind to me lately.
M Y , major purchase this week was 200
Sydney Mutual Insurance. To get them
I had to pay $3.45, the year’s top price.
I think they’ll be worth it. Although listed
only in 1964, the operating company
(Timber Mutual) is celebrating its 50th
anniversary this year. That could well call
for a festive bonus, or certainly a dividend
increase. Earning rate last year was a
healthy 31 percent and a “considerable”
improvement in net profit was reported
for the first half of the current year. With
the dividend rate only 12J percent, some-
thing should be in store. And even at
$3.45 both the dividend yield (3.6) and
the earnings yield (9) are relatively high
alongside other insurance stocks like
Queensland and Mercantile Mutual.
BOUGHT
2000 Woodside, 25c, $5lO.
100 Kathleen Inv., $1.93, $197.
200 Sydney Mutual, $3.45, $704.
SOLD
1500 Woodside, 38c, $558.
200 Cottees, $2.65, $519.
200 Wunderlich, $2.85, $558.
All this and still $l9O (plus a few
“dead” stocks) in hand. Maybe I’ll buy
some F. W. Williams this week in antici-
pation of a takeover.
The portfolio now is:—
Cost
No. of Name of Date Per Price
Shares Company Bought Share 18/5/66
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 $l.lO $1.04
200 VAM 28/9/65 0.50 0.56
400 West Titanium ctg. 13/2/66 1.15 0.99
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.73
400 Coal and Allied 24/2/66 1.36 1.42
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.38
500 Comenq 10/3/66 1.11 1.13
200 Fowlers Vacola 13/3/66 0.45 0.46
1000 Deposit and inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.19
100 Tyree 30/3/66 1.62 1.70
400 Nuttall 5/4/66 0.70 0.74
500 Consol. Rutile 13/4/66 0.89 1.06
200 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 1.98 1.95
100 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.84 2.84
400 Steel Mills 2/5/66 0.68 0.70
300 Hanimex 4/5/66 1.42 1.45
500 Haulage 11/5/66 0.54 0.54
500 Woodside 13/5/66 0.25 0.42
200 Sydney Mutual 17/5/66 3.45 3.45


I
*
I
1
I
*
X
*
tWAto
kh
V S f
* m
*
A
A
*
X
WiWm
M : mm
fc:
m Tm
\\
❖
■
8^
m
K
w"
c*
<ar
A
\U
wU
S\\Vr
-%k
;
To stimulate the appetite, enhance the flavour of good food and aid digestion, is the function of a white table wine. Mildara
white table wines capture the subtle flavour and characteristic bouquet of Semilion and Riesling grapes. After controlled
fermentation, they are bottled when only a few months old, then mature to perfection in the bottle. MILDARA WHITE OPAL
is a new favourite—a dry white wine of Hock style, blended from the Semilion and Rhine Riesling grapes vintaged by
Mildara. GOLDEN BOWER, the name chosen for a wine made from the Riesling grape grown in the Hunter River Valley of
New South Wales. Each vintage is given a Bin Number so you can select your favourite year. Legend has it that a
returning Crusader brought with him from Persia the vines that eventually became known as Hermitage, growing
on the slopes of the Rhone River. Cabernet Sauvignon grapes originally came from Medoc in France and give
to claret a distinctive flavour and rare quality. Mildara makes three types of red table wine. HERMITAGE CLARET —
a special table wine blended by Mildara for everyday use, a wine of quality and good value available in bottles and flagons.
CABERNET SHIRAZ, a dry red wine made from the grapes it is named after. Grown in South Australia, at Coonawarra and
the Southern Vales, south of Adelaide—blended at Mildara and bottled as a vintage wine under distinctive Bin Numbers,
for instance 1963 is Bin No. 32. Mildara now has one of the largest Cabernet Sauvignon vineyards in Australia at
Coonawarra and new Cellars featuring modern techniques for the production of fine table wines. CABERNET SAUVIGNON,
1963, AND CABERNET SHIRAZ, 1963, vintaged at our Coonawarra Cellars from our Coonawarra vineyards, matured
in oak casks, bottled at two years, these fine red wines are Champions and will improve in bottle for many years.
MILDARA - it makes a host of difference
MW.SB.FPC


Welcome to a new inspiration
in luxury and value...
Enter the silent and luxurious world of
the new Fairmont, by Ford. You’ll find
all the appointments, space and luxury
you could wish for . . . including indivi-
dual, contour-cushioned front seats that
recline to any position you desire; heater
and demister; padded dashboard and
sun-visors; deep-pile wall-to-wall
carpeting; and a folding centre armrest
on the rear seat.
For extra convenience at night the
whole car floor is flooded with light as
you open any door. There’s also a dome
light in the centre of the roof, and
exterior reversing lights.
Special underbody treatment, sound-
deadening materials and acoustically-
perforated headlining contribute to a
remarkably hushed ride.
As for performance, Ford’s ultra-
high-performing “Super Pursuit 200”
engine, “Fordomatic 3S” automatic
transmission and power disc brakes are
standard equipment.
Drive Fairmont yourself, soon . . .
at your Ford Dealer’s.
Fairmont Sedan $3050 (£1525),
Station Wagon $3250 (£1625). Station
Wagon price includes a power rear
window. Both prices include tax.
7j
7
V.
.... ...... ; „ - - . -
Sw,
//
■:
lil
fflSs
N
V
G
1
k
BK. • ®
SJ5*-
i\
m
riJ,
i®
i
Sr
gp
/
111.
i j
