

The Bulletin
ANZAC DAY 1966
THE DIGGERS
OF BIEN HOA
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


for my money there’s only
one kind of sweater:
handsome in town
rugged outdoors
easy-going casual
durable faithful
pure new wool
PURE NEW WOOL
the rear thing
THIS IS THE INTERNATIONAL SYMBOL OF THE WORLD S BEST . . PURE NEW WOOL
*9*B
V
v^ars
■
m
.-f-
., _, V -st “O m
W^TT-
si»*ii
■


How
do you move
an Embassy
to Buenos Aires?
ASK GRACE BROS
Because they've done it. Only Grace Bros. Removals are
qualified to move an Embassy “across the world.” And not
just because they're big either. But because they care —
care for big things and care about small things.
This job required extra-special care, because all the furnish-
ings were brand new. And the packing cases required special
design—able to withstand salt air and at least five different
loading operations! Care comes from planning. By the way,
Grace Bros, not only moved this furniture —they supplied it,
too! Right down to the light switches —and all they had for
reference were a set of architect’s blueprints and some
pictures. Now that’s an example of what Grace Bros, have
done. If you have a removals
problem—make the easy deci-
sion (and make the right one).
Call Grace Bros. Removals.
GRACE BROS REMOVALS
GRACE BROS REMOVALS
Sydney 2-0946 □ Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide
63-1181/2 □ Perth 24-5477 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 □
Newcastle 2-4302 □ T'ville 9-4411 □ Lismore226s □ Murwillumbah 133.
56. MS
The Bulletin
Established. 1880
APRIL 23, 1966.
VOL. 88, No. 4494
THE DIGGERS OF BIEN HOA
The long year 16
UP FROM FRANKENSTEIN
Science fiction convention 24
EVELYN WAUGH 31
INDIAN FAMINE 33
A NEW R.S.L.? 37
TANNER 13
BATMAN 29
LETTERS 43
THIS AUSTRALIA
Bolte’s Teachers 10
White Collar Politics 10
TAA’s New Chairman 10
The Opera House 15
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Man of Many Talents . 48
David Martin’s “The Young Wife” . . 49
Music at Mittagong 50
Australian Ballet Company 52
BOOKS
Knopf elmacher on “The Penkovsky
Papers” 54
Christina Stead’s “Seven Poor Men of
Sydney” 56
Conor Cruise O’Brien 56
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Women and Employment 63
Financing the Motor Slump 66
Wildcat and the Markets 66
Speculator’s Diary 80
MAN ON THE LAND
Woolmark and West Germany .... 76
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone; 2 0666.
Advertising:- 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
80x.4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


v - , ~ ‘
St,-' :
’>. CO
**■ ♦* ,
now!!!!!!
maximum
. security
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
MK-A
>• ,
A 3.
AS
AZ.
A 3.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to the Master-Key.
: | MK-A
I -1 1
: MK-B
15 MK-C
l -I "I
At. A 2. A 3. 81. 82. 83. Cl. C 2. CX
A3.|| Ci.o
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions .or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
LOCK UP
WITH A
N.Z. agents: G. D. LITTLE LTD. New Guinea Agent: CARL F.
Wellington and Auckland. RADKE AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia,
MANUFACTURED .In AUSTRALIA BY
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569-0611 • Sydney:
56-3191, 56-3114, 56-3166, 56-3186
• Brisbane: 7-3047 • Canberra:
4-4098 • Adelaide: 8-2153 • Perth:
23-2214 • Hobart: 3-3141 • Laun-
ceston: 2-1441


A LW Scraper at work on the Bolivar Sewerage Project, Salisbury, S.A.
mm
LW
F
fW *****
UjLgJL.
?e
mu
p
■ * .' ■
•OttV* ** f.' * **"*•
m i mkhi or
LW
Made in Australia by engineers with years of on-the-job know-how,
mighty LW Tournapull Self-Loading Scrapers are backed by the
highly specialised technical services of the world-wide Le
Tourneau-Westinghouse organisation. You will find them coping
with the toughest jobs from the tropics to the snow country
throughout the Commonwealth and overseas.
To mention just a few of the many projects on which Australian-
made Tournapull Self-Loading Scrapers are constantly employed:—
■ COAL STOCKPILING, N.S.W. ■ HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
AND MAINTENANCE, THAILAND, MALAYSIA AND THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND ■ AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION,
NEW GUINEA ■ HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IN SINGAPORE AND
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
m
for EXPORT
Only earthmoving equipment manufacturer to receive
the Award for Outstanding Export Achievement.
LeTOURNEAU-WESTIMGHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities in all States.
LW248.106


Illustrations Left, overseas softwood fibres (long). Right, Australian eucalypt hardwood fibres (short).
m .<
W.
THE LONG AND SHORT OF IT- significant growth from an idea
How many people know as they use thousands of tons of
Australian-made paper in stationery, books, magazines
and printed brochures that behind this highly organised
regular supply lies an unusual story of progress.
Thirty years ago, all our fine paper was imported because
pulp for this paper came from long-fibred wood, of which
Australia had little. Despite those who said it could not
be done, pulp for fine paper was made here from our own
short-fibred eucalypt trees and a great new industry,
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Limited, was born.
From idea to idea, process to process, quality to quality,
right through to catering for most of Australia's needs
in fine paper, the company’s large mill at Burnie, Tasmania,
has never stopped developing its resources and its
products. This saves us millions of pounds in overseas
exchange every year.
And the long and short of Australia’s growth, too, is the
ability to stand on our own feet and develop our own ideas.
ASSOCIATED PULP & PAPER MILLS LTD
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
“Burnie” and “Ballarat” Fine papers are available
from your paper merchant
m
P 7?
uJk*
... <*». . |||||||| | | |V-^yy^^
> j
>U V>: . 'll
\4C»' : :-.\. <W
S&gfe
/*


11(3!
one in a series of case histories of Goodyear reliability in industry ...
WE WAITED
22
If
TO BRING YOU THIS STORY
i \
t 1.
m
CASE HISTORY 1
In 1951, that’s 15 years ago, a set of
six Goodyear ClO5 multi V-belts was
installed to drive the No. 8 Circular
Saw at a large firm of Sydney Timber
Merchants, Vanderfield & Reid Ltd.
Operating at 950 R.P.M. from a 35
H.P. motor, the V-belts drive from
an BV2 O.D. pulley to one 13% O.D.
The saw operates, on the average, 6
hours a day, 5 days a week. That
means that these Goodyear V-belts
have worked about 22,500 hours over
15 years. So that’s a long time. So
they’re Goodyear belts. They’re made
to take it.
With reliable performance like this,
it’s no wonder that this firm insists on
all Goodyear rubber products.
CASE HISTORY 2
At the North Melbourne Bedford St.
plant of Metropolitan Refrigerated
Services Pty. Limited, Goodyear Green
Seal V-belts are giving maximum
trouble-free hours at minimum cost.
Eleven D 270 Goodyear Green Seal
V-belts have been operating in the
freezer and stores side of the plant
for 10 years. The compressor is an
80 ton twin cylinder 11 in. x 11 in.
Werner. It works approximately 112
hours every week of the year.
Six D 240 Goodyear Green Seal belts
drive a 7 in. x 7 in. Werner compres-
sor, while three Wilac twin cylinder 70
compressors are each fitted with twelve
D 270 Goodyear Green Seal belts.
Both the Werner and Wilac compres-
sors are fully automatic and the belts
fitted to them are exposed to a con-
siderable amount of wear and tear. Yet
in their 4 years’ service since installa-
tion, the drives have given no trouble
at all. They have, in fact, many years
of service left.
It’s this type of reliable service that
makes Goodyear V-belts synonymous
with high quality engineering know-
how.
When you want extra driving force at
the lowest drive cost, contact your
Goodyear technical man at the Good-
year branch in your State.
■
GOODYEAR
CSOOB


The flowers that bloom in the spring
look better on TEIJIN Tetoron fabrics
i
m
t ■$
Hll
i. . ■ ■■;
Floral designs in true-io-iife colours (and
some Nature never thought of) reproduce su-
perbly and stay brilliant on fabrics with TEIJIN
Tetoron polyester fibre.
TEIJIN Tetoron is a modern miracle —wrinkle-
free, quick-drying and needing only a touch of
the iron at most. Alone or in blends with cotton,
rayon and other fibres, it produces fabrics that
can be beautifully printed by any method, new
or old,
Florals, abstracts, paisleys —any designs look
better on easy-care TEIJIN Tetoron. There is no
fading or running ever. Specify TEIJIN Tetoron,
from Japan’s pioneer in synthetic fibres sincel9lB.
CTEiJirapTEIJIN LIMITED
SYDNEY OFFICE: 10th floor, Swire House 8, Spring St., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia Tel. 27-6760 Cable Address: TEIJIN SYDNEY
OSAKA HEAD OFFICE: 1 Umeda, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan Cable Address: TEIJIN OSAKA
Main Products: TEIJIN Tetoron (polyester fibre) / TEIJIN Nylon / TEIJIN Teviron (Polyvinyl chloride fibre) / TEUiN Acetate / TEiJIN Polycot (polynosic fibre)


ONE MORE
WEEK
Picking up business
THE- SYDNEY tow-truck operators
who tried to tow away a car without the
owner’s permission and were, for their
pains, last week convicted of illegally
using a car and behaving in an offensive
manner might have done better if they
had tried the latest method in Melbourne
of picking up business. Tow-operators
there distribute cards in homes around
likely intersections, offering rewards to
the first person to ring and report an
accident $6 if one car is subsequently
towed away, $l2 if two are.
Rental
“OZ” REVUE, comprising mainly bits
and pieces from the magazine, was neither
particularly good nor bad, but it deserved
better than to fold unceremoniously over-
night when the company had a disagree-
ment with PACT (Producers, Authors,
Composers, and Talents Co-operative), in
whose premises the revue was being held
each Sunday. The revue, according to its
producer, James Sharman, had a gentle-
men’s agreement with PACT to pay $2O
per night. However, when the company
presented its cheque, it was told there
had been a mistake. It was $2O per per-
formance, or $4O a night.
Sharman says he pointed out to PACT
that for $4O a night he could hire a fully
equipped theatre in the city area. PACT,
housed in a building, best described as
“full of atmosphere,” near Pyrmont
Bridge, can provide neither dressing-rooms
nor stage equipment.
PACT, of course, is free to go about
its declared object of “training and en-
couraging local writers, directors, produc-
ers, and actors” in the way it thinks fit.
The way it thinks fit, apparently, is
mainly folk-singing. However, it is worth
noting that, according to the City Coun-
cil, PACT itself pays a rental of 50 cents
a week.
Going Bats
WHATEVER could we have been doing,
eight or nine years ago, to have missed
them? But there it was, the man said,
implying that we had been frittering our
time away on any number of worthless
pursuits. Batman serials had definitely
been shown in Australian picture-theatres
then.
Never mind, he said. Come May 27
and Batman will be back again, masked
and caped in a 4-hour 8-minute marathon
—Batathon?—of 15 vintage episodes at
the Capitol in Sydney, to soften us up for
the full Bat bit in late 1966, when Batman
will reach Australian television, and Aus-
tralian pockets, in full swoop.
As they say in America, Batman is
camp—meaning that he, in company with
Tiffany lamps, Marlene Dietrich, Troy
Donahue, and feather boas, is in. Or in
other words, so bad that they are good.
Mr. Victor Green, who announced this
month in the Public Notices that he has
the sole Australian rights to the name
Batman, pointed out that he was not
actually going to promote anything. But
he was sure plenty of people would, if
the response to the James Bond craze was
any indication.
“A lot of menswear firms pushed the
Bond image,” Mr. Green explained in
his office at Milson’s Point this week.
Ernest Hiller suits, Pelaco shirts, the
matching tie-and-sock-set people. “This
sort of thing,” said Mr. Green, displaying
a cello-packed shirt with a picture of Bond
and girl inscribed The Shirt With the
License to Thrill. “But Batman will
appeal more,to the kiddies,” he added.
As Mr. Green will be only in the happy
position of issuing permission, he could
not say exactly what delights were in
store for the kiddies. “I suppose there’ll
be the ice-cream people, and the games
people, and naturally lots of Batman shirts
and caps. Oh, and plastic toys.” In
America, where Batman has been in for
some six months, he has winged upwards
into greeting cards and bubble-bath pro-
ducts, notching up an estimated total of
75 million dollars in sales.
Looking faintly relieved to get even a
vague flicker of recognition from us, Mr.
Green produced a Batman comic—Batman
and Robin’s Most Thrilling Mystery
Cases and suggested some homework.
It wasn’t a first edition Batman, just one
of the reprints printed by Land News-
paper for K. G Murray’s, but the full
flavor was there.
Apart from a few vooms and booms,
the comic was pretty tame, and anyone
with a whetted appetite had better wait
until the TV series arrives. The first
episode on American television, shown last
January, has Batman being doped with
a love potion in a discotheque—he drinks
orange juice, in deference to the kiddy
market—and being forced to Batusi the
night away with someone called Molly,
the moll of the Molehill Mob.
The American Broadcasting Corpora-
“My God, Walford, now it’s de-
manding the vote!”
tion acquired the television rights to Bat-
man from artist Bob Kane, who created
Batman in 1939 as a comic-book hero
after he became fascinated by a Leonardo
da Vinci drawing of a birdman.
Like Superman, Batman is the true
schizoid hero, spending his private life as
millionaire socialite Bruce Wayne, whose
parents were killed by gangsters when he
was a child, and who is therefore pledged
to fight crime in its more spectacular
forms. The Gotham City mansion obviates
the trials of changing personality and
pants in the nearest broom cupboard, but
for television producers the big problem
was the absence of a steady Batgirl.
Instead of Lois Lane, Batman has
Robin of the thundering fists, a teenage
boy ward who lives on the premises. A
new 7 character, Aunt Harriet, has been
hastily written in to keep an eye on the
moral tone. Girls pop up from time to
time, but any involvement that interferes
with Batman’s crime-fighting is strictly out.
It’s all very nice for the kiddies, and
Dad’s licence-to-thrill shirts will keep him
in a state of hubris until the collars fray,
but what about the rest of us? Not to
worry. Mr. Green has the second sex
well in hand, and along with Bond and
Batman he has also secured the rights to
Modesty Blaise.
In the licence business, there’s always
an exciting new 7 episode around the cor-
ner.
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Singapore has the right to select its
own friends, even if they happen to be
enemies of its present allies.
Lee Kuan Yew
The Ky Government has done good
service in Vietnam.
Minister for External Affairs, Paul Hasluck
A very great deal of bad music is being
written today.
Sir Malcolm Sargent
How can I tell you whether I am
going to marry Callas or not? You must
ask Callas. I am a very busy man who
has no time for these problems.
Aristotle Onassis
I think the theatre is a wonderful
holiday, but life is too short for holi-
days.
Tony Richardson, film director
Dylan makes a person think, even if
that person doesn’t know what he is
thinking about.
—From the audience at the Bob Dylan concert
I shall have to go on earning money
until I am 90 to pay everyone off and
to put a little aside for my old age.
Richard Burton
I have every right to get plastered and
walk home as long as I don’t bother
anyone else.
TJ.S. Judge John Murtagh
Take your hatchet or knife and im-
mediately cut the throat of the Imperi-
alist agents in the hotels, in the houses,
wherever they may be.
President Sekou Toure, of Guinea
Normally, when a soldier is asked to
do something and it is not done, an
officer will say, “Are you idle?” and
the soldier will reply, “Yes.” They will
then charge him with being idle.
Army spokesman
Everyone in the FBI is a Special Agent.
Of course, there are some Special Agents-
in-Charge.
Ex-FBI man John Stewart


■
m
,•
mmm
FUJI ELECTRIC
Performance Proven Superiority!
Fuji Electric's research, tech-
nology, and acute awareness of
the demands of progress have
played an important role in the
remarkable development and
industrial growth of Australia. A
complete line of quality Fuji
Electric products, from the giant
water turbine (above) to minute
diode, are exported to Australia
and other modern countries hav-
ing a need for electrical pro-
ducts proven superior by out-
standing performance!
<D
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CO.,LTD. (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office : Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable : DENKIFUJI TOKYO


Vandalism
SOME MONTHS AGO some miracle
managed to have the official vandalism,
which had put flowerbeds around the
Archibald fountain in Sydney’s Hyde Park
and then had put iron-hoops around the
flowerbeds to keep the public off the
flowerbeds, checked. The flowerbeds were
removed and the fountain restored to
what it was intended to be.
Now, however, someone is, perhaps
rashly but certainly after provocation,
ysing vandalism to check vandalism.
Mysterious noises heard in the early hours
of one morning last week were followed
by the discovery that someone had
dynamited an ungainly structure of tin
and wood in the middle of one of the
few remaining stretches of grass in the
park. This shelter, in no way superior in
function to a tree and, of course, a good
deal less handsome, apparently began life
at the Showground as a commercial
exhibit, came to the park for a commercial
flower-nursery show last Waratah Festival,
and was firmly bedded into the public
park, where it has stayed ever since.
We would like to think that the blast
was the first shot in the Lord Mayor’s
campaign to clean up Sydney, but we
doubt it.
Ladies' Day at The Lodge
A NOT-VERY-TAME Press photographer
of our acquaintance reports:
The Press were all there. The weather
was perfect. What more could you want?
The star was Zara Holt, the Prime Minis-
ter’s wife, and the occasion was showing-
off the new-look Lodge to the ladies of
the Press. Things were off to a swinging
start. The photographers wanted an out-
door shot of Zara among the flowers
with the Lodge in the background. No
trouble. With the poise of a veteran, Mrs.
Holt clutched a piece of phlox, murmur-
ing that she knew this picture well.
Most of the photographers did, too.
But then the garden was looking its best.
After three relays of photographers had
taken the same picture we moved inside.
The Lodge was ours—with one word of
caution: “I’d rather you didn’t take any
pictures upstairs,” said Mrs. Holt. “Be-
cause we haven’t done anything to it,
yet.”
Depending on the munificence of the
Department of Public Works, the Lodge
will be a suburban housewife’s dream by
the time Mrs. Holt is finished. There was
a conducted tour of the ground-floor
rooms, discussions on color schemes, and
such posing in front of paintings and fur-
niture that Mrs. Holt was forced to
declare a five-minute break for a cigarette
she does not smoke in photographs.
During the inspection of the library, Mrs.
Holt showed us a framed flag presented
by the astronauts who had recently toured
Australia. “They are very small flags, as
you can see,” said Mrs. Holt. “I suppose
they were able to fit them all in a match-
box for their world trip.”
Someone murmured “cynic,” but Mrs.
Holt responded nobly. “We are all part-
ners in space and it does mean something,”
she said.
With the arrival of morning tea, Mrs.
Holt again rose to the occasion, with beer
in the study for anyone who didn’t want
tea and decoration. Within minutes, every
photographer had seized the opportunity.
As one battle-scarred veteran of many a
Royal tour said, “If only Ming could
see me now, drinking Foster’s and sitting
in his favorite chair.”
Civilising
ACCORDING to the London “Ob-
server,” Dibbs Mather, a young Aus-
tralian living in London, has launched a
campaign to civilise his own country.
Civilise (not in inverted commas) may be
the “Observer’s” word, not Mather’s. The
“Observer” being what it is, it probably
is.
Mather’s campaign, which is the pro-
duction of a magazine, “Australarts,” in
London, has been preceded by many
alarums and excursions. Mather himself
was here a year ago talking about it. He
made a not altogether fortunate appear-
ance in the television program “The
Australian Londoners,” talking about it.
Now the first issue has at last appeared.
Mather’s campaign, according to the
“Observer,” has something of the flavor
of a Government-in-exile planning libera-
tion. His manifesto states: “The Aus-
tralian arts and communications systems
are being violently criticised. Many Aus-
tralians involved in these spheres work
of necessity in England. But their involve-
ment is such that they have now formed
themselves into a group capable of some
action.”
To the “Observer” he put it: “Any
talented Australian just has to get out, if
he’s to get real experience, and if he’s to
find out that other countries are not all
like Australia—physically pleasant, but
culturally stifling ... In Australia you
won’t be accepted unless you’ve already
got a name. So we feel that Australians
who’ve become famous here could exert
some influence back home, as a group.”


IN THE U.N. General Assembly,
Australia opposed a “stronger
sanctions” move against Rhodesia,
saying it was Security Council busi-
ness. A Rhodesia-Australia Associa-
tion began advertising for members,
using a PR firm’s address. Mr.
Hasluck arrived in Washington, the
Queen Mother left Fiji for N.Z.
in the Britannia, Gunner O’Neill
came home to begin a 90 days’ sen-
tence, and Sir Malcolm Sargent
arrived to conduct the MSO. Loren
John Clarke was deported from
South Africa to Australia. Ford,
Australia, said it would sell its
vehicles with seat-belts from July 1,
and “Vogue Australia” featured
“sexy-looking knits.”
THE FEDERAL executive of the
ACSPA (Australian Council of
Salaried and Professional Associa-
tions) condemned conscription on
moral grounds. Defence Forces
reached post-war peak of 61,000, of
whom 29,000 Army; latest annual
intake 7700, of whom 4200 NS and
3500 regulars. At Tasmanian ALP
conference Mr. Calwell said he
would live or perish on conscription
issue. Brisbane’s City Square plan
was exhibited and criticised for dull-
ness, Sydney’s Anzac Memorial was
defaced with oil-paint signs such
as “No Fascist Butchers for Viet-
nam.” The chairman of Associated
Oil said 60 percent of rigs were
idle, Australia was not looking hard
enough for oil. Victoria halved the
1965 Easter road toll, and police
booked 6468. Air Chief-Marshal
Sir Frederick Scherger became TAA
chairman.
IN TOKYO an “Australia on
Parade” exhibition created special
interest in polished gemstones. In
New York, company chairman R. A.
Irish said Australia welcomed invest-
ment but preferred to hold a 25-50
percent equity. The Victorian Em-
ployers’ Federation said women
would become more in demand than
men. The Statistician said the pre-
sent work force was 3,651,000 men
and women, and that nearly one
married women in three had a job.
Ram Lai, University of Tasmania
graduate, due to return to Fiji, con-
tends his eyesight will be harmed if
he leaves Tasmania, overruled by
Immigration. Of 5000 Asians now
eligible to become Australians only
70 have applied. Sir Robert Men-
zies became a Freeman of Mel-
bourne. Two Canberra men broke
the world record for continuous
bridge-playing. A report from the
Queensland Prices Commissioner,
Mr. Pluckrose, that retailers did not
cheat during currency changeover
became the centre of a new con-
troversy. The Anglican Primate, Dr.
Gough, became ill in London.
THIS AUSTRALIA
EDUCATION
Bolte’s Teachers
SIR HENRY BOLTE could never be
called a devious man and the
secondary teachers have been, until
now, puzzled about the reasons for his
opposition to reform of the Teachers’
Tribunal. Now the Premier has finally
nailed his true colors to the mast. Like
all good State politicians he is worried
about money: “All this agitation over edu-
cation is directed toward one end—to get
more pay for teachers.”
This charge brought a quick denial
from the Secretary of the Victorian Sec-
ondary Teachers’ Association, Mr. Brian
Conway. So Sir Henry amended his
statement: “Perhaps I should not have
said that the teachers’ sole objective is
higher salaries—l should have said 99
percent.”
It may be inferred from these statements
that whatever the truth of the charges
against the teachers the Premier is more
than 99 percent concerned with money
when he rejects demands for Tribunal
reform.
He clearly believes that to give secondary
teachers better representation and power
on the Teachers’ Tribunal would lead to
higher salaries in that division of the
service and consequently further embarrass
the State Treasury. A pay rise of only
three or four dollars a week for secondary
teachers would cost the Government a
couple of million dollars a year. The
State Government already spends one-
third of its budget on education and it
feels that is enough.
Of course the secondary teachers want
more money. But State Cabinet shows
the narrowness of its perceptive apparatus
if it thinks that this must be all that the
teachers are worried about. In Education
Department and Teachers’ Union publi-
cations, in the new broadsheet magazine,
“Forum,” and numerous other places
there is abundant evidence to show that
material considerations are not paramount
in the minds of the present teacher
leaders.
What they do say about pay, however,
is that until adequate professional salaries
are paid to those with the appropriate
professional qualifications and skills,
secondary teaching will remain in its sub-
professional limbo, most of the cleverest
young men will avoid teaching and choose
professions of higher salaries and status,
Government schools will continue to lose
as many of their teachers to private
schools or other professions, and untrained
and unqualified staff will be used to plug
the gaps.
CIVIL AVIATION
T.A.A.’s Air Chief-Marshal
THE main problem facing the new boss
of TAA, Air Chief-Marshal Sir
Frederick Scherger, is not simply in
running the nation’s jetline, but how to
cope with the chief of his rival airline,
Mr. R. M. Ansett.
In service circles, Sir Frederick is held
in very high esteem, and while his com-
mercial acumen has still to be tried, it
must not be fore-judged. Yet one can
think of retired senior servicemen, one Air
Vice-Marshal in particular, whose fingers
got very burnt in commercial pies.
This is the first time a service chief
has been appointed to TAA. TAA’s first
boss was Mr. A. W. Coles, appointed by
the Labor Government that started
TAA in 1946, and who resigned six-
months after the 1949 election brought
Sir Robert Menzies back to power. Mr.
Coles had been one of the two independent
MPs who had crossed the floor to throw
out the Menzies Government in 1941.
Its next chairman was the former secre-
tary to the Treasury, Mr. G. P. N. Watt;
its next was energetic businessman Sir
Warren McDonald who died last year;
its next, Sir Giles Chippendall, former
head of the Government’s main commer-
cial operation, the Post Office.
Unconnected as all these appointments
may look, each, unlike Sir Frederick, had
a background in business and finance.
When Dr. J. R. Darling left the head-
mastership of Geelong Grammar to chair
the Australian Broadcasting Commission
he admitted freely that he knew next to
nothing about television and had rarely
watched it. When Sir Frederick talked
on his appointment last week he mused:
“Perhaps commercial flying is something
different, but not all that different.”
UNIONS
White Collars
THE day of official unity between blue-
collar and white-collar unions in
Australia is not far off. The collabora-
tion between both wings of the union
movement in the present national wage
case being fought in the Commonwealth
Arbitration Commission is only one sign
of the ecumenical spirit which is growing
in the two wings of the union movement.
With the exception of the powerful Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union, blue-collar unions


are united under the banner of the ACTU".
The major white-color union organisations
are not linked to the ACTU. They are:
the Australian Council of Salaried and Pro-
fessional Associations (ACSPA), the High
Council of the Commonwealth Public
Service Associations, the Australian State
Public Service Federation, the Council of
Professional Associations, the Australian
Teachers’ Federation, and the Federal
Council of the University Staff Associa-
tions. Chief among these are ACSPA, with
a quarter of a million members from nearly
40 affiliated organisations, and the Com-
monwealth Public Service Associations,
with nearly 30 affiliated organisations and
130,000 members.
Officials of the six white-collar unions
met in Melbourne last week and discussed
the possibilities for closer unity with the
ACTU. It was pointed out that union unity
at the arbitration level was of great assist-
ance to their claims for higher wages.
An example of the necessity for co-
operation was provided by the Bolte Gov-
ernment’s amendment to the Worker’s
Compensation Act last year. This amend-
ment limits the range of compensation and
mostly affects white-collar workers, who are
more prone to work-induced nervous dis-
orders and heart diseases.
The white-collar unions will work closely
with the ACTU in the forthcoming cam-
paign against price rises; a campaign which
may be expected to reinforce the argu-
ments of ACTU advocate Hawke at the
Arbitration Commission.
The factors which inhibit closer contact
between white collar and blue collar at
the moment are basically two: the con-
cern that the white-collar unions may be
drawn into political battles and campaigns
in the ACTU; and white-collar feeling that
ACTU-type leaders were too much sons
of soil and oil to understand the problems
of their suited brothers.
The personalities of men like Mr. R. J.
L. (“Bob”) Hawke, Mr. Mick Jordan, and
Mr. Ken Stone, of the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council, Mr. Jim Coleman, of the
W.A. Trades and Labor Council, and
others are breaking down the latter barrier.
The political worry is disappearing as
organisations such as ACSPA realise that
their presence in the ACTU would destroy
the power of the extreme Left.
Another sign of hope for the often be-
leaguered moderate forces in the ACTU
is the move by the AWU to come back
into the fold. Federal AWU leaders
recently canvassed the idea in a circular
to all members of rejoining the ACTU.
It is clear that the AWU leadership
recognises that its presence would help
destroy Communist influence in the ACTU.
The presence of both it and the white-
collar unions would be overwhelming and
could be the industrial foundation for a
regenerated Labor Party.
Tames
“The Americans are fighting for our freedom and we must
show we know what freedom means let's attack the Yanks."


ax
rvVj
#’sSf
St
f
■ \s
, m
l
•/•*v
•' '" ■'J
IgUk. Jfc
- v
i
• win;
& \
A V. •
V:.
*
r-;-V.vv.v -.- t
r'W
■''•• ; « ,s '^ s 3PSsSl
:■( ••:*>
s-v *
:
Liii
¥)u park yourself!.. sve park your car
(luxuriously) ' (free)
atMenzies
Free in-hotel car parking, and luxurious
accommodation! They’re yours right
in the heart of Sydney ■ — at Menzies.
Spacious bedrooms, all with private
bathrooms, have individually controlled
air-conditioning. (You can open the
windows if you like.) Genuine 24-hour
room service brings you food and drinks
at any time. Restaurants and bars cater
for every taste. Emperor Room Nightclub
features gourmet menu with floor show nightly
at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children.)
AliflZliS I
rr hr bp
HJLB.II BP BB BP
I B ..BP ...BT BJI BP BB BB
■ bb ..rr rr ,nn gr rr
tW
Menzies
JjJgj Sydney
®s Hotel
MZI/U
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA -Menzies. MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza. MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal. MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND-Lennons. BRISBANE; Lennons. TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA— Wrest Point Riviera. HOBART.
THE ARMY
Ready To Go
“T'VO you reckon that this is what it’s
I /like up in the weird place, mate?”
The questioner, a pimply faced, 20-
year-old National sorry, Selective
Serviceman, was squatting in a machine-
gun pit high on a mountainside overlooking
a rugged if boring panorama of the Great
Dividing Range, some 100 miles north-
west of Sydney, one hot afternoon recently.
An ex-Brisbane bank clerk (are all the
National Servicemen former bank em-
ployees?) and now a member of the sth
Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment,
which, as part of the 4500-man Ist Task
Force, leaves for South Vietnam soon, the
youth was taking part in an exercise,
trumpeted by the Army to emulate “ex-
pected battle and terrain conditions as
closely as possible.” It did.
In an efficently organised Press visit
the Army had flown—by bumping
Caribou—some 30 reporters into the area.
They were to “see what could be —(will
be)—the last exercise for the Task Force
before embarking for Vietnam.”
Of the 1000-odd troops taking part,
perhaps a third were Selective Service-
men. By the time the Press arrived, they
—and their Regular offsiders —had been in
the broken, gully-and-cliff-strewn area for
about a week. Chasing, being chased by,
capturing, and “destroying” a 200-man
VC unit, the Task Force troops were
scattered over a wide zone, their only link
with food, supplies, and base being the
clattering Sioux and Iroquois helicopters.
The Army placed few obstacles in the
Press’ way. Although “no soldier or
unit” was to be identified by name or
home city, there were few problems in
talking openly —either on or off record—
with the National Servicemen. The pre-
dominating feeling amongst them was
neither fear, nor anger, nor bloodlust, but
—as with the Brisbane clerk —one of
intrigue. The “weird place”—how this
slang term for Vietnam evolved remains a
mystery —holds few terrors, as yet, for the
young soldiers. If one attitude was
general, it was this—“l’m not afraid of
going. There’s a job up there to be
done.” Most were not happy at “being
forced to go.” “I’d have been lots happier
to enlist, if I had to,” but otherwise there
were few signs of serious resentment.
The bulk of the Nashos—how the Army
loathes that term —have little time for the
“protests.” “They were at the station
when we first went away to camp,” one
young lance-corporal said. “They yelled
and chanted and carried on like real nongs
—they’re mugs,” he added scornfully.
Most of the troops, regular, volunteer,
and draftee, harbor a deep wish to see the
protestants lumped off to camp. “That’d
straighten ’em out!” one said smugly.
Their year or so in the Army has cer-
tainly wrought changes in most of the
National Servicemen. “They are,” Task
Force Commander Brigadier Vincent said,
“ready in all respects to go. I would be
happy to lead them into action tomorrow.


SCOOPS
Flying Sorcery
The saucer season has arrived in
Victoria again. The autumn air is
thick with them, and only the great
skill of saucer navigators has pre-
vented the disruption of commercial
airline traffic.
It really began with the report from
Mr. Ron Sullivan, of Maryborough, a
steel contractor. He reported that he
was driving between Dunolly and St.
Arnaud when suddenly his headlights
were pulled hard to the right. “Instead
of lighting the road, they lit up the
fence as though they were being
attracted by a magnet,” he said. “In
the middle of the paddock was a
column of colored light about 25 feet
high and shaped like an ice-cream
cone.” Without a sound, but at tre-
mendous speed, that column rose into
the air.
A couple of days later dozens of
people in the suburbs of Jascoe Vale
(near Sandy Stone’s Moonee Ponds)
reported a “large glowing object, emit-
ting a faint buzzing sound” hovering
in the night sky. A Country Roads
Board worker said the object was like
two saucers stuck together in the shape
of a discus and left a yellowy-blue trail
behind it. Scores of similar sightings
were reported to Press, radio, and
television newsrooms.
On the same day the president of
the Victorian Flying Saucer Research
Society released from his top-secret
file a photograph of “an unidentified
flying object” taken from a garden in
Balwyn (on color film with a Polaroid
camera). The UFO was about 25ft. in
diameter and about 150 ft. up. “From
an almost stationary position it shot
off northwards at terrific speed, ac-
celerating to what seemed to be hun-
dreds of miles an hour in seconds.”
Melbourne “Truth” decided that in
the mounting tension it was time to
reveal that for some time a mystery
object has been moving in the night
sky near Melbourne and then “gradu-
ally retreating into space. The object
emits a stark, white light and appears
to have at least two craft following it.”
“Truth” had some “amazing photo-
graphs” of this light and its “eerie
behaviour” taken by a “Truth” reader
who, fortunately, also happened to be
a freelance photographer,
Earlier in the month a man reported
being followed on his way home from
work near Castlemaine by an object
“resembling” a flying saucer. It was
bright yellow and spinning like a top.
He and his wife watched it for 30
minutes before it sped off.
Meanwhile, in the north-eastern town
of Yea a family has been troubled
recently by a “bright red glowing
object” circling their home; and at
Culcairn, in southern New South Wales,
local people have discovered rings of
dead grass in the paddocks—obviously
“flying-saucer beds” like those reported
in Queensland and Adelaide earlier in
the year.
The Government appears to be doing
nothing about the saucers at the
moment, although the senior operations
officer of the Department of Civil
Aviation looked forward “with great
interest” to seeing some of the pictures
and told “Truth” quite frankly that
he believed they had “a scoop.”
THE BULLETIN, however, will
keep the public informed on latest de-
velopments, sightings, and theories,
What we must urge its that the
nation keep calm and face what-
ever outer space throws at us with
courage and dignity. This is no time
for idle speculation, false information,
or fear-mongering. THE BULLETIN
is confident that Australia can meet the
challenge of the mounting UFO crisis.
Meanwhile, if you see any weather
balloons floating around, prick them,
The skies are crowded enough as things
are.
SPORT
The Winter of Our Content
NOW that summer, Christmas, and
Easter have been endured and are
safely out of the way Melbourne
can settle down to indulge in its one con-
suming passion. The League football
season starts on Saturday.
What a long, wet, glorious winter of
content it will be with that lovely litany
of names incanted from every voice and
tongue: the Tigers, the Magpies, the
Demons, and the Hawks; Whitten, Bar-
rassi, Skilton, and Farmer. And after the
•proper nouns, the adjectives. Australian
Rules has gathered its own special kit of
adjectives: “Prodigious,” “phenomenal,”
“scintillating,” “authoritative” (yes, we do
have “authoritative kicks”), “screaming”
(as in “a screaming mark”). The games
will also be full of “highlights” and “sen-
sations” and “incidents” and “features”
and “bursts of play” and “just one of
those things.”
Many traditional moral values will be
asserted with renewed insight. Teams will
be proven greater than individuals; club
spirit will be shown to triumph over
narrow self-interest; good big men will be
shown better than good little men; but it
will be seen that the size of the fight in
the dog counts more than the size of the
dog in the fight.
The Melbourne “Herald” will campaign
once more for the abolition of interstate
games and nobody will be nasty enough
to point to the correlation between the
interstate matches and the decline in sales
of the Saturday “Herald” and the
“Sporting Globe.” “The Age” will ignore
such crass concerns and continue to devote
half its football space to the fortunes of
the Demons. Irrespective of whether the
team is first or last on the League ladder.
Little Lou Richards, a wondrous
inventor of metaphors, will dominate
Saturday morning’s “Sun” with troglodytic
prose (as told to Jack Spratt), and the
radio and TV will provide an adequate
kick-to-kick coverage of the public and
private lives of players, coaches, trainers,
secretaries, and notable barrackers.
It’s enough to set a man screaming in
expectation.
THE LEFT
Cant
Revisionism is running wild
through the corridors and warrens
of the Communist Party of Aus-
tralia and its offshoots. The new liberalism
makes the old Socialist Left look almost
Stalinist. Compare the latest issues of
“Arena” and “Outlook.”
“Arena” is a United Front quarterly
produced by Communists and ex-Com-
munists. The Autumn, 1966, issue takes
a stern line with the Soviet Union for
jailing writers Daniels and Sinyavsky.
lan Turner writes that “everything about
this trial was repugnant to the democratic
and socialist conscience. The charge
against the writers was itself a violation
of freedom of thought and expression.
The men were condemned by the Soviet
Press and officialdom before their case was
heard . . . and the sentences (of seven and
five years) were vicious . . . The crowning
indignity was, perhaps, that cadres of the
Young Communist League were used to
break up this protest” (i.e., of Soviet
citizens outside the courtroom). Turner
also mentions “that there are still philo-
sophers in jail in Poland.”
“Outlook,” an independent socialist
journal, is much less concerned. “Out-
look” sees merely “a crisis of ideas”
worked out in the field of writing which
is “of course not surprising.” It is pre-
sumably the result of the progressive
dialectic in socialist societies.
Who are the more liberal? It appears
at “Arena” on the way up has passed
“Outlook” on the way down: an impres-
sion confirmed by other articles in these
recent issues of the two magazines.
“Arena,” for example, prints an intelligent
if eccentric analysis of what it calls “the
New Right in Australia,” by Doug White,
an article almost entirely free of the dia-
lectical cant which usually characterises
Communist writing on this subject. “Out-
look” on the other hand tackles the New
Right in the typical fantasy language one
traditionally expects from Australian
Leftists.
Helen Palmer links Nazis James
McAuley and others as being involved in
a web of conspiracy to destroy democratic
thought; and young Liberal Michael
Darby is likened to Mussolini, “to whom
he cultivates a notable resemblance.”
When, indeed, will they ever learn?


~ V ■ , . .
H
■
*Jahr§
c
as*i
Outboard Marine choose DRI-MARK to identify and decorate many
outboard motors in their wide range.
DRI-MARKS are self-adhesive nameplates with the beauty of highly
polished, mirrorized Mylar* plus these other advantages Selex
DRI-MARKS are applied in seconds . . . they're inexpensive . . . and
resistant to salt water corrosion and the solvent action of petrol.
Available only from Selex Decal Pty. Ltd., or their overseas associates.
SELEX DECAL *
do amazing things with TRANSFERS
MELBOURNE: 61 3211 SYDNEY: 43 0221
PROBLEM
How to brand
an outboard motor
ANSWER
A DRI-MARK MIRRO-CAL
Nameplate
OVERSEAS ASSOCIATES:
Canada Decalcomania Co. Ltd., Toronto
The Meyercord Co., Chicago
Decal Transfers (N.Z.) Ltd. Auckland
SD26O
*
The words Decal, Dri-Mark, and Mirro-Cal, are registered. Mylar is a registered trademark of the duPont Co.
SCIENCE
The Chief
DR. T. S. GREGORY, chief of the
CSIRO Division of Animal Health
for the past six years and assistant
chief for the five previous years, has
announced his retirement. His successor
has not yet been named, but he may be
an overseas man. Dr. Gregory is a Vic-
torian and has spent most of his life in
that State.
He grew up with Australian agricul-
ture, having attended the agricultural
high school in his hometown, Ballarat.
Afterwards he studied veterinary science
at Melbourne University, from which he
graduated with honors in 1923. Agricul-
tural high schools were a much more
important part of the Australian educa-
tion system than they are today. From
them came many of Australia’s most
effective scientists, because their interest
in agriculture was nurtured from early
youth and they were given a good insight
into the real problems besetting rural pro-
duction in this country. The agricultural
high school at Ballarat is long since de-
funct and the veterinary school at Mel-
bourne has only recently been re-estab-
lished after being closed for almost all of
Dr. Gregory’s professional life.
Dr. Gregory began his career as a
veterinary bacteriologist. He lectured in
bacteriology, and in 1935 gained a
Diploma of Bacteriology from the
London School of Hygiene and Tropical
Medicine. However, he will be remem-
bered mainly for his work in the
closely related field of epidemiology, to
which he made important contributions
after joining CSIRO in the late 19305.
For instance, his studies on brucellosis
led ultimately to the adoption of “strain-
-19” vaccine throughout Australia. He
also worked on foot rot and helped pro-
vide the knowledge on which the suc-
cessful Australia-wide campaign against
contagious pleuro-pneumonia is based.
He will be remembered, too, for his
insistence on high standards in research
and especially as a wary watchdog over
exotic diseases. Australia’s continuing
freedom from such scourges as blue-
tongue and foot-and-mouth disease, etc.,
may well be due to his stout defence of
quarantine measures. He was always
quick to recognise potential new hazards
and suggest ways of circumventing them.
Under his leadership the Division of
Animal Health now has the facilities and
knowledge to diagnose and deal promptly
with any new diseases that may break
out among our flocks and herds. Like the
true epidemiologist that he is, he has
steadfastly applied the precept that “pre-
vention is better than cure.”
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or ordered
for $l.lO including postage from the
same Library, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
A few copies of the 1963 Index are also
still available.


PETER O'SHAUGHNESSY
33J RPM BULLETIN RECORD
SPIRIT OF ANZAC
Available for only $1 post-free. The noted Aus-
tralian actor presents specially recorded excerpts,
evoking the spirit of soldiering, from the works
of William Charles Wentworth, C. J. Dennis, lan
Mudie, A. B. Paterson, John Manifold, John Mase-
field and Alan Seymour.
fc.
TANNER BUST
OF MENZIES
We have arranged for the casting of a limited
number of life-size plaster copies of Tanner's
bust of Sir Robert Menzies, which appeared on
the cover of the January 29 issue of The Bulletin.
These are available to readers for $lO (£5)
each, post-free.
rr\
*
BARRY HUMPHRIES'
45 RPM BULLETIN RECORD
CHUNDER DOWN UNDER
Available for only $1 post-free. It has two of
the hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie's
'The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications"—with a new ski song especially
composed for this record.
For each record send 51 (a cheque or postal note, not cash) to "BULLETIN RECORDS", BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY, and for each bust $lO (cheque
or postal note, not cash to "BULLETIN SCULPTURE", BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY, together with the coupon and address label below. Both records
and bust may also oe purchased over the counter from the PAPER SALES DEPARTMENT, sth FLOOR, TELEGRAPH HOUSE, 168 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN BUST
OF MENZIES
BULLETIN ANZAC
RECORD
BULLETIN BARRY
HUMPHRIES' RECORD
Cross out item(s) not required Box 70,52, G.P.O., Sydney (
PLEASE DESPATCH BULLETIN BUST(S) !
ANZAC RECORD(S) BARRY HUMPHRIES' RECORD(S) !
Nome of Sender I
Address j
State j
| If more than one record or bust is ordered, attach list giving full name, j
I address, State and, if overseas, country.
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE
The Advice Men Cometh
NEXT week the Sydney Opera House
affair should reach another climax
with the arrival here of some of the
consultants who advised Mr. Joern Utzon
before his withdrawal from the project
and who have been asked to come to
Australia to talk things over with Mr.
Davis Hughes, the N.S.W. Minister for
Public Works.
It is not known how many will be
turning up, but one early acceptor is Mr.
Ove Arup, head of the firm of structural
engineers who played such a major role
in one of the issues over which Mr. Utzon
stopped work.
Mr. Arup, whose relations with Mr.
Utzon have been very friendly and whose
admiration for the Dane’s designing genius
is well known, will presumably see the
architect during the three weeks or so he
plans to stay here. But whether Mr. Arup
is likely to encourage all the consultants
to band together to demand Utzon’s
return as boss of the project is another
matter. The Arup organisation does not
appear entirely happy with Mr. Utzon,
and the converse is equally true.
Some of the consultants, like the
acoustics expert Professor Cremer, are re-
ported to have refused to continue without
Utzon. Mr. Arup’s firm intends to work
on.
It appears unlikely that Mr. Utzon will
be invited to attend any round table dis-
cussions between the Minister and the
consultants, although he will probably still
be in Sydney at the time. Mr. Hughes
would have nothing to lose, except a
growing reputation for stubborness, if he
invited Utzon in for a while; the matter is
more important than the pride of either of
these men.
The “official” reason Mr. Utzon has
remained in Sydney is that he is yet to
complete all the formalities involved in his
departure from the Opera House. But
it seems likely that the coming of the
consultants in force may have given him
some hope that the Government may soon
realise more fully the difficulties it faces
in trying to get along without him.
But his chances of reinstatement on his
original terms are nil. It is true that the
real difficulty between Mr. Hughes and
Mr. Utzon is the way they are disagreeing
rather than the subject matter of the dis-
agreement. But one basic objection to
Mr. Utzon is his insistence on continuing
to employ the sculptural process of design-
ing by experiment on models rather than
the architectural technique of first
formalising a concept on paper, of solving
his problems on the drawing board, and
then testing the solutions on prototypes.
According to the Government, Mr. Utzon
is too much a sculptor and too little an
architect in his approach to the Opera
House, the project needs an architect.
Who that architect (or panel of archi-
tects) is to be is not yet known. The
Government has clearly been having serious
trouble trying to solve that one, and the
whole question places an intolerable burden
on’ the very able Government architect,
Mr. Ted Farmer, who is both an admirer
and friend of Utzon.
If the consultants come and go without
Mr. Utzon being re-appointed to his build-
ing, it looks like the last chance of Sydney
getting Mr. Utzon’s version of an Opera
House will have gone. He is unlikely
to wait around for another 18 months in
the hope that Labor wins the next N.S.W.
State election, despite the assurance of
the Minister for Public Works in the last
Labor Government, Mr. P. N. Ryan, that
the Labor Party will re-appoint Mr. Utzon
when it gets back to power.
MICHAEL BAUME


The Diggers of Bien Hoa
The Long Year in a Long War
From SAM LIPSKI in SAIGON
IF they are not out on an operation
next week, the men of the Ist Bat-
talion Group, the Royal Australian
Regiment, will hold a dawn service to
mark them first Anzac Day at Bien Floa. It
will be a simple ceremony and, appro-
pnateiy, will take place on the sunbaked
parade ground of “The New Gallipoli
Barracks,” the official name given to the
Australian Army s spread of khakfgreen
canvas, 15 miles from Saigon.
If the daily pattern is maintained, the
sounds of the Last Post will compete with
the thrashing of the helicopters from the
173rd Airborne Brigade of the United
States Army camped alongside the Aus-
tralians. Or if there are no American
troops being ferried in to or out of battle
that day, then any one of half a dozen
different types of jet aircraft will probably
be shattering the sound barrier, landing
or taking off from the American airbase
at Bien Hoa which the Australians are
helping to protect. Around the clock the
airbase booms and roars with ceaseless
activity as the American build-up con-
tinues in the Vietnam war.
Soon that war will come to an end for
most of the Australians at Bien Hoa, when
the battalion comes home in June after
its year’s tour of duty. What sort of a
war has it been for the 800-man infantrv
battalion and its allied units?
T , . AU ., r
In the recent Operation Abilene men of
Inhhif „| a ‘ t al '°” T T Vmg thr °j g a
rubber plantation when they stopped two
Vietnamese youths one 15, one about 20.
Jrrnw Jnn r ;°n 7- C kT h bow a " d
waTT S ina iL T H b S back j said he
r ° h T u- In ... Vletnan ] ese
s told to return to his village and to
o low a certain direction—otherwise he
was in danger of being hurt. It was half-
past four in the hot afternoon.
A little before eight that evening an
Australian machine - gunner on patrol
sighted a group of Viet Cong moving up
ahead and fired. It had been a group of
four, and one lay dead; it was the boy
with the bow and arrows. He had been
guiding Viet Cong, having already spied
on the Australian troops earlier in the
day, having broken the curfew, having
een V arned to §° back to . visage.
ometimes the war is this kind of war.
Or the question may be also answered
in ccdd statistics. It has been a war in
which the battalion at Bien Hoa has lost
24 dead and 130 wounded in action, of
whom the great majority have been
wounded by shrapnel and booby traps
rather than direct gunshot wounds. More
than half of the wounded have since
returned to active service in Vietnam.
The Viet Cong and North Vietnamese
killed in action against Australians number
122, seven have been wounded and 358
taken prisoner. The Australians believe
they have killed another 127 Viet Cong
wh ose bodies have been removed by their
comia des.
Phase Two
t> A NAT t u u •„ . , ,
L ANAL , thou S h IC . has been made to
, SOU « d b Y tbe mindless protesters, the
P hrase a dl , rt y wa y § lves a Clue. Or
more correctly, while all wars are dirty
," ars ’ eve . r , yone ,n ,. Austr , ali . an con -
tingent will agree that Vietnam’s is one of
those wars which is dirtier than others.
Yet that is onl y a If by “dirty” is
meant unconventional, frustrating, and
prolonged against a tough, cruel, and
elusive enemy in impossible country, then
perhaps there is nothing particularly dif-
ferent about this war from other similar
guerilla campaigns which Australian
troops have fought in. What makes the
kind of war Australians have been fighting
different is not only this but its sheer
intensity, especially since the beginning of
Phase Two in the Long Year at Bien
Hoa
Phase One began in early Tune 1965'
when , h e battalion of infantrymen Arrived
in the country together nnh ihe Ist Aus
tralian Army Logistic Support Company
and a detachment from the 419th Prince
of Wales Light Horse equipped with Ml 13
Armored Personnel Carriers. It was a
difficult time for Lieutenant-Colonel
I. R. W. Brumfield, who was the unit’s
first commanding officer, and his men.
Their site at Bien Hoa was in the middle
of sharp kunai-grass country dotted with
old rubber trees. Even when cleared by the
troops the site was a desolate waste. At
the same time as a camp had to be set up
there were initial problems of supply that
had to be overcome. All this was going
on while the troops were taking part in
training operations with the Americans,
maintaining their local security in their
Tactical _ Area of Responsibility and
f cc im atismg themselves to the scorching
heat w u hl( j h , bea^ s d ™ n on the flat fr ying
pan which is Bien Hoa.
The early difficulties with equipment
and clothing—some of which were
exaggerated by uninformed reporting while
others, like the problem of the unsuitable
boots were real enough—added to the
hardship "in Aisfirst" months £e
emphasis in the training exercises was on
getting Australian troops to get used to
the speed and scope of the American
helicopter units which could and did
airlift the whole battalion in one hit into


a forward area, complete with all its
equipment. In the first search and destroy
operations, activities were on a compara-
tively small scale with limited contact
with the Viet Cong.
Phase Two of the war as seen from
Bien Hoa began with the Ben Cat Opera-
tions in early September. By the end of
September the battalion had completed its
longest and most successful operation
against the Viet Cong since it had arrived,
and some of the basic pattern of future
operations began to emerge. About 45
miles north of Saigon the Ben Cat area
in September was a quagmire. Monsoonal
rains held up the movement of men and
vehicles; the mud, the insects, the heat,
and the nature of the contact with the
Viet Cong were indicators of the next few
operations to come.
Although the Ben Cat area was im-
portant-to the Viet Cong as a training
and transit region, he avoided major con-
tact with the Australians, Americans, and
South Vietnamese units on the operation.
Australians encountered groups of only
five to ten guerrillas who concentrated on
trying to harass with sniper fire which
daimed one Australian dead. The haras-
sing tactics did not prevent one Australian
squad from tracking a sniper for 11 hours
before he was trapped and killed. This
was also the first time that Australians
were able to match themselves against an
enemy whose ability in monsoonal condi-
tions had been exaggerated.
And there was something else which
happened at Ben Cat. As the first patrols
moved forward after the airborne land-
ing they found 30 adults and 50 children
from the hamlet of Long Cau had taken
refuge in a stone church complete with
their pet dogs, birds, and food supply.
The battalion’s Roman Catholic chaplain,
Father Gerry Cudmore, of Preston, used
sign language and broken French to
arrange to say Mass for them the next
day. The Vatican Council’s decisions on
the Mass in local languages had left Father
Cudmore without a written Latin text, but
he managed, despite a water buffalo which
joined the congregation during the service.
Armed with an automatic rifle, Father
Cudmore’s batman, Private Rover Dale,
of Maryborough, Queensland, was on
guard in the sacristy while other Austra-
lian troops surrounded the church with
machine guns. It was the first Mass
celebrated in the church for three years.
The Viet Cong had threatened a local
priest with death if he attempted to come
to the village.
For the four days that the Australians
were in the area, Mass was celebrated every
morning, two children were baptised and
the medical officer, Dr. Peter Haslau, of
Adelaide, treated other children for coughs,
colds, and skin ailments. Some were
suffering from malnutrition. Truckloads
of Australian soldiers visited the church
when they came off operational duties
and shared their rations with the villagers.
This happened during an operation which
went on for 14 days, in which Australians
accounted for 12 of 47 known killed Viet
Cong, and captured documents, ammuni-
tion, weapons, and clothing.
The next three or four operations were
basically of the same sort. Under the
operational command of the American
173rd U.S. Airborne Brigade, Australians
were given a task as part of an overall
mission which would include elements of
the /3rd Brigade.
Toward the end of last year the opera-
tions were extended in time and scope.
There were also the beginnings of the
new tactics of the Viet Cong of standing
and fighting for his position as well as the
more frequent encounters with regular
North Vietnamese forces. The war was
changing in Vietnam as the American
expansKm began to make its presence felt.
lor the Australians it meant a change
from the elusive small-force Viet Cong to
the larger-scale main-force attacks of hard-
core regulars
Operation Crimp
PEARLY this year the Australians took
part in what has become the most
widely publicised of their operations—
Operation Crimp. On January 15 the Aus-
tralians came across a highly developed
tunnel system six to seven miles long and
going down as much as six levels in parts.
It is considered to have been the command
post for the entire Viet Cong military and
political machine in the Saigon-Cholon
area. Australian engineers were given the
, j , 6 . , , 6 i •
complex and dangerous job of searching
the tunnels out, mapping them, and gettinl
them ready for demolition.
Captured were some 50 weapons, 20,000
rounds of ammunition, 200 hand grenades,
1001 b. of explosives, caches of clothing,
medical supplies, and food. Prisoners
were taken and 100,000 pages of Viet
Cong documents were a valuable intelli-
gence coup.
The. present commanding officer of
the battalion, Lt.-Colonel A. V. Preece,
who took over when the recurrence of an
old injury forced Lt.-Colonel Brumfield to
return to Australia, believes that Crimp
was the most successful operation and
feels that the troops themselves regard it
as such also. He speaks highly of the
hazardous work undertaken by the
engineers in searching out the tunnels
where there was the constant danger of
concealed attack from the Viet Cong,
So highly was their work re g ar ded by
the i n f an try that the engineers now have
a special relationship with the infantry-
men. Crimp was the most costly opera-
tion in terms of Australian casualties—
eight dead and 29 wounded, the highest
figures of any operation. In the clashes
with Australian patrols 27 Viet Cong were
killed.
Sines j anuary the operations have con-
tinued at an even greater with even
shorter rest b operations .
• ~n , , , U. .
F or the P as ' 140 da >" s the ba,tah ° n has
b f™ evolved in active operations for 87
04 “em—a ratio which Lt.-Colonel Preece
maintains is higher than that of any other
campaign in which Australian troops have
fought since the beginning of the Second
World War. This is one aspect of the
intensity of the war, but it is more than
this. Where, in the past, units could return
to a rear base and relax for a while, there
is no let-up for the men at Bien Hoa.
They return tired and tense from a fort-
night in close contact with an enemy and
a war which demands an unusua ll y high
state of readiness. The same night the
r ° •
routine of the Bien Hoa camp continues,
T , f f r ~ „ ,
The 5 0u “ ne anses °“' of . the twofold ' ask
aat the , battall ° n when it came to Bien
Hoa—defence of an area and participation
j n operations,
.
Thls means that at an Y time off °P era '
tlons a quarter of the men are on four
hours’ reaction notice, half are involved
in some form of regular daily patrolling in
and around the battalion’s area, the other
quarter are responsible for general duties
in the running of the camp. As well as
this, training in special skills like marks-
manship continues. At all times when
leaving their tents—even to walk ten yards
away—all personnel must carry weapons
and ammunition. The routine is wearying
and demanding.
Helping an aged villager to safety.


S I
m
4
1
f
'
%
i
$
4T.
m i
MM
wmmm.
..:•.. ; .:: ; :v:x
■
■
Me
Flying
Cloud!
Me
flying
Qantas!
Only Qantas offers
so many flights to San Francisco!
direct flights to New York!
So many Qantas flights a week to pick and
choose from, to give you real convenience in
flights and times. And—only Qantas flies direct
to New York from Australia. And only Qantas
flies from Australia across the U.S.A. to London.
And—Qantas offers Honolulu on every flight to
the U.S.A. (Enjoy a holiday there for no extra
air fare.) What’s more—in the U.S.A. you can
enjoy a whole tour arranged by your Qantas
Travel Agent here in Australia. (For example,
99 days’ coach fare, $88.40.) And —if you’re
flying to New York, under the Qantas “Extra
Cities” travel plan you can fly to your choice
of many American cities for no extra air fare.
See your Travel Agent or Qantas.
AUSTRALIA’S ROUND-WORLD AIRLINE
45 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
Q ANT AS EM PI RE AIRWAYS LI MITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A., Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Phone 2-0369; Canberra, 4-4381; Melbourne, 62-5501; Brisbane, 31-2141; Adelaide, 51-5961; Perth, 23-1564/5/6; Hobart, 2-7411; Darwin, 3350/1.
Q14.103.468t


Although all troops have had the oppor-
tunity to take recreation leave in Hong
Kong or Bangkok, the majority in the
battalion would not have had more than
10 days of real holiday away from a situa-
tion of tense alert. Saigon is no resort
and many prefer to stay at Bien Hoa
than to take leave in a city where, as one
sergeant put it, “The VC will lob a
grenade in your window as soon as look
at you.”
Officers emphasise this does not mean
that Bien Hoa is under regular atack or
infiltration by the Viet Cong. In fact
the newcomer feels safer there than in
Saigon. But the Australians do guard
access to one of the most important
American installations in Vietnam—a
constant temptation to the Viet Cong and
a worthy trophy of war if ever there was
any relaxation.
Morale
Y ET > despite the constant routine of
patrols, standing-to, maintaining listen-
ing posts in addition to the wearing-down
of over 20 operations—more than half of
them major ones—the senior medical
officer, Dr. M. Naughton, of Sydney, re-
ports that there has been no problem of
battle fatigue and an insignificant inci-
dence of psychological problems. The
rare cases had a history of instability
before they came to Vietnam. Because of
the high standards of hygiene maintained
at Bien Hoa the troops have been free
of serious epidemic.
The question of morale standards is a
more difficult one to assess. If morale
is measured in terms of willingness to
fight a hard war under unusually tough
conditions, then morale is high. It is also
high, say some of the troops themselves,
because they are going home. The pros-
pect of going home is not just a matter of
an occasional joke for the men at Bien
Hoa. It is at the base of everything they
do. For officers the question has been
whether the prospect of going home might
not mean a slackening off in operations.
Lt.-Colbnel Preece believes that the most
recent operations have shown that there
is no danger of this. In fact the troops
have shown renewed determination.
There was a period of speculation earlier
in the year at Bien Hoa before the official
announcement was made telling troops
when they would go home which was
morale threatening. The men at Bien
Hoa felt themselves to be in the middle of
a political sandwich while they waited to
hear.
Another example of where the enlisted
soldier, and many of his officers, feels
that there has been a lack of understand-
ing of their needs and desires has been
the question of the campaign medal. It
does not take anyone longer than an hour
at Bien Hoa to understand why the men
of the Ist Battalion would feel strongly
about the idea of “lumping us together
with Malayan bushwalkers” and giving
them the same service medal as awarded
for other campaigns. Why the decision
should have been so obtuse in the first
place and why, now that a decision for a
special Vietnam medal has been made, it
cannot be produced in time for the bat-
talion to wear it on return to Australia
is a question which the VIPs from the
Prime Minister (shortly expected in Viet-
nam) down, may well have to answer,
because it will probably be put to him
in the frankest terms.
On the question of decorations for
bravery, Lt.-Colonel Preece hopes that the
ratio applied in the past, whereby only a
certain percentage of a unit would get
decorations for bravery, will be revised,
bearing in mind the particular kind of
war being fought and the very high per-
centage of “front-line” personnel in the
unit. He is hopeful that all those who
have earned decorations will get them if
the special conditions are considered.
Discussing the best way in which those
.who want to welcome home the battalion
could help, Lt.-Colonel Preece said that,
while he understood the good motives of
those who were suggesting a march
through Sydney, he felt that the best
Guarding a Viet Cong prisoner.
way to welcome home the troops would
be to allow them to have leave immedi-
ately and get home to their families.
This was because the battalion would be
returning home in phases. If there was
to be a march this would mean that some
members of the battalion would have to
wait for the others in Sydney. He agrees
that if there was some sort of simple
welcome as each part of the battalion
came in, this would be an expression of
support the troops would welcome.
Lt.-Colonel Preece’s views, however
reasonable, may fall on ears listening for
evidence of public support. It would be
the height of irony if the same Govern-
ment which shamefully sneaked the bat-
talion out of Sydney last year under
cover of darkness would now override the
human considerations involved and use the
battalion in a public parade which would
be just as effective if held three weeks
later.
Other than going home and the nature
of the war, a frequent topic of conversa-
tion among officers in the battalion is the
uneasy and usually complimentary
comparisons being drawn between
the Australian troops and the Ameri-
cans. The business of praising the
unique qualities of the Australian soldier,
his alleged mystic, and esoteric know-
ledge of the laws of jungle warfare and
anti-insurgency tactics, his care on patrol
as compared with the alleged carelessness
of the Americans, has become almost a
cult with some of the 300 correspondents
covering the war in Vietnam.
Considering that they number 1500
among 650,000 American, Korean, New
Zealand, and Vietnamese troops, the bat-
talion has, in the view of some of its
senior officers, been the subject of exag-
gerated praise and unfair comparison with
the Americans. While they privately
acknowledge that Australians have had
better training in the particular kind of
war most often faced in Vietnam, they
point out that Australia has a unique
advantage—for years now it has had no
doubts about its possible theatre of conflict.
The Americans have been largely
oriented to training for European condi-
tions or for other countries. It is also
true that the American armed forces have
a high regard for them—the battalion has
been requested as protection by a number
of American units. During Operation
Abilene in the first week of April the
commander of the Ist U.S. Division—
“ The Big Red One”—Major-General
Depuy, sought information on the Aus-
tralian techniques of planning infantry
operations at company and platoon level,
and such compliments are naturally appre-
ciated. But, claim the Australian officers,
the Americans are not as ignorant of
counter-insurgency warfare as some
journalists suggest. Furthermore, many
Australians have spoken of their admira-
tion for the great physical courage of the
American soldier in action, their highly
developed techniques of air-mobile war-
fare, their vital medical airlifts out of the
middle of an attack zone which have
saved lives among Australians and enabled
the very high rate (more than 50 percent)
of recovery and return to active duty. As
one officer put it:
“We’ve seen the Americans from 173rd
Brigade go out and in one night lose
more than 40 men. That’s more than
we’ve lost in ten months. But they
fight hard and what’s more important
they are getting results. They are very
brave men. The reason why we don’t
want them rubbished is because no one
is in a position to rubbish them without
insulting their great courage.”
There are also practical reasons for
wanting to avoid the comparison. It
impairs working relationships and the
Americans understandably can get touchy.
Nevertheless, Lt.-Col. Preece says that
while there have been differences of
opinion with the Americans they have
not been on major issues or in circum-
stances which seriously affected the out-
come of an operation.
According to one officer the most valu-
able lesson Australian troops have learnt
from Vietnam is that “the book works”—
the book being the system of training in
the Australian Army for patrolling, section
tactics, the drills for ambush, and the prin-
ciples generally guiding the infantry
instruction manuals. Vietnam, according


AN
L
EYE
A
IKE
HAWK
The Rokkor lens is the hawk-eye in all Minolta cameras-and especially
in the SR-1 and SR-7. Rokkor picks out the tiniest details, the smallest
movement. Rokkor gives accurate definition. Top Amateurs and Profes-
sionals out for photographic prey, use Minolta SR-1 or SR-7 cameras for
the sharpest results, and unequalled colour fidelity. More than 100 inter-
changeable lenses and accessory combinations make Minolta SR the
finest and most versatile camera to own.
in^
m
m
• Single lens reflex interchangeable from 21
to 1000 mm. • Apochromatic Rokkor lens 1.4,
1.8 and 2.0 with fully automatic diaphragm, depth
of field preview. • Patented mirror action prevents vignetting even with largest tele-
lens. • Brightest viewfinder with disappearing microprism focusing. • Fully syn-
chronised focal plane shutter 2 sec. to 1/500-1/1000 sec. selftimer. • Most sensitive
rnnnled Oris exnnsnre meter . . . MINOLTA SR-1 from £68.0.0 ($136); SR-7 from
MINOLTA
SINGLE
LENS *
REFLEX
£84.19.0 ($169.99).
Minolta
. . . the name quality made famous.
A little Geisha comes
free with every Minolta.
Ask for Minolta at camera
dealers and chemists.
>2
FREE Brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTY. LTD,,
153 Barkly Street, EAST BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
SRB-65
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change their
addresses are asked to notify “The
Bulletin” Subscription Department well
in advance in order to avoid a break
in the continuity of service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.
to the officers, has vindicated Army train-
ing. There are not even any essential
modifications needed.
It does not follow that the soldier
cannot be better prepared for the realities
of the war in Vietnam. There is little
doubt that more instruction in Vietnamese
current affairs and general information on
the country would be of great help. For
example, the wave of rioting and demon-
strations which have swept Saigon and
threatened the Ky Government brought
understandably confused and angry reac-
tions from some troops, whether Aus-
tralians at Bien Hoa or Americans in
Saigon: “What are we over here dying
for if these people can’t even care less?”
This kind of ideological training will be
even more essential with the task force
where national servicemen, not only
volunteers, are coming.
Finally, how do the first Australians at
Bien Hoa take the ill-informed criticism
of them from minority circles at home?
In shorts, with rivulets of perspiration
sliding slowly down over his chest and
name-tags, an officer sits in a tent at Bien
Hoa and speaks about the men. “Forty
percent of the men in this battalion have
got wives and children. Yet you read
that we are murderers of women and
children, that we don’t bury the enemy’s
dead. Stupid. We go out of our way to
care for the women and children. Our
principle is simple. Until they shoot at
us we treat them as friends. We bury
their dead whenever we can.
“You might remember the incident
which was reported in one paper in Aus-
tralia last year in which we were sup-
posed to have shot dead a woman. We
did. A soldier on patrol sighted two
figures both dressed alike in black and
with their coolie hats on. He went to
ground with his machine-gun but held his
fire. Then the two figures threw grenades
at him and wounded him. While wounded
he fired back and killed them both. When
we checked the bodies we found that one
was a woman.
“That story was published without
explaining that the woman had thrown a
grenade and wounded a soldier and only
then was she fired upon without the
soldier knowing that she was a woman.
We got a please explain from Canberra
about that. Yet the paper never published
a retraction.
“Why do we do it?"
“ W E are supposed to be bloodthirsty
mercenaries. Yet men in this battalion
are giving up what little free time they
have to teach English at the village of
Tan Mai, which started with 30 kids and
now has so many we have to turn them
away. We are building a school in the
village on Ong Huong. We’ve distiibuted
food and clothing there, some of which
the men have paid for out of their own
pockets. We’ve put up playgrounds for
the kids at Tan Phu and Ong Huong.
We’re building a well at Cay Da and
putting in a latrine as well. We’re paint-
ing the children’s ward at Bien Hoa.
Whenever we go on operations our doctors
and our dentist treat everybody who needs
treatment. We think even the VC are
lining up for it. We never do any of this
unless we get the permission from the
local Vietnamese mayor or chief, because
we respect their protocol.
“Why do we do it? Well, I think you
have to start with the individual soldier
and the kind of person he is. He’s not
forced to do any of this or even asked.
He does it because an Australian soldier
won’t go into a village and see kids run-
ning around without a pair of shorts or a
shirt. And we are sunnosed to shell
villages. Well, we haven’t.”
There seems little to add except to say
to those Australians who to know
what the war in Vietnam is about—let
them come to Bien Hoa.


3P
■
m
mmm
m
:
v.v.v.v.v.y.v.v.v
1
one dial many, many jobs
This Automatic Copier is simple and so versatile
Simple anyone can operate it. No buttons, one dial. Versatile the
‘4s’ gives clean dry copies from almost any original in just four seconds.
Prepare statements automatically from ledger cards, simplify ordering,
invoicing, laminate irreplaceable or often used documents to protect from
damage. Make projection transparencies. Address labels (up to 42 labels
in four seconds). Anything we haven’t covered? Contact the 3M
Business Communications Centre and discuss it!
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Adelaide 51-5971
Perth 28-4651 • Hobart 3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109
3m
COmPANY
3M2/1724/66


A New Hope for the RSL?
More than booze and anti-Communism
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
THE Returned Servicemen’s League
learnt something from its fight with
the ABC three years ago: It began
at last to face the problem of being sub-
stantially identified with booze and re-
action.
A “Four Corners” program on the
RSL, you’ll remember, had placed most
emphasis on the League’s licensed clubs
and its anti-Communism. At first the
League replies were merely aggressive.
Mr. Keys, the national secretary, called
the program a “caricature”; Sir Raymond
Huish, who was then acting national
president, said it was “completely dis-
torted”; the RSL appealed directly to
the Prime Minister to take action -against
those in the ABC who had attempted to
“cast a slur” against ex-servicemen and
their clubs; Dr. Darling battled quietly
to preserve the independence of the ABC;
the ALP was, as usual, split on the matter,
and rebuked Dr. Cairns and Mr. Uren
for speaking out of turn; letters from
irate veterans and smirking liberals poured
in to editors; and the acting editor of
“Four Corners,” Allan Ashbolt, was re-
placed by Gerald Lyons simply and co-
incidentally “as a matter of administrative
detail.”
Sir Irving Benson praised the RSL
for its anti-Communism and its work for
ex-servicemen and their dependants at
the Wesley Church Pleasant Sunday
Afternoon but added that people should
not just resent criticism, “they should sit
down quietly and think about it” and
“the RSL should ask itself whether
criticism that its clubs were ‘boozing
centres’ is justified”; the “Anglican” from
the heights of its left-puritanism defended
“Four Corners” and charged the RSL
with being controlled by “a coterie more
interested in grog and gambling than high
idealism”; the Clerks’ Union protested
against the “smear” of the RSL and the
Communist-led Victorian branch of the
ARU supported the ABC.
Perhaps the most honest comment came
from an East Melbourne correspondent:
“I am a member of two clubs in Sydney
and one in Melbourne, and I can assure
Sir Raymond Huish that when I visit
them it is certainly not for the purpose
of drinking milk or lemonade.”
In the past couple of years, however,
the League has tried hard to restore its
image. The Victorian State President
last year publicly proclaimed that the
RSL would try to “alter its public
image from a club of reminiscing beer-
drinkers to a welfare organisation.” He
admitted that it had been fashionable for
the public to call the clubs “boozy”
and also that “some clubs have un-
doubtedly been lax on discipline.” He
thought that this was one of the factors
hindering the RSL, which has a mem-
bership of slightly more than 260,000, in
its drive to win the membership of the
other 250,000 eligible ex-servicemen.
Booze apart (and surely this angle has
been magnified when one considers that
most RSL sub-branches are not licensed:
of Victoria’s 435 sub-branches only 31 are
licensed, and none of the South Australian
clubs are licensed—which is not to say
that they do not see the occasional keg
tapped), the RSL has other image prob-
lems and more serious and organised
critics.
It is often called “jingoistic” and
“militaristic,” of engaging in “witch-hunt-
ing,” of “playing up the Communist
bogy,” of “McCarthyism,” of being “re-
actionary” and “non-democratic.” Late
last year Dr. J. F. Cairns told a clapping,
cheering crowd in the Richmond Town
Hall that “You must be prepared to be
unpopular.” He added that there was
a lot of talk these days about threats to
Australia but “the real threat to freedom
comes from the RSL and other reaction-
ary organisations.”
The RSL’s strident anti-Communism is
certainly one of the major causes of its
popularity with many liberals and with
almost all people of the Left. Since World
War II and its own successful internal
fight to bar Communists from member-
ship, the RSL has repeatedly called for
a national ban on the Communist Party
and the Victorian branch recently asked
the Commonwealth to appoint a Royal
Commission into Communism.
Now anti-Communists may range across
a very broad political spectrum, from
militant socialists like the “Spotlight”
group in Melbourne (nearly all from
Central Europe) on the one end to Empire
blimps and racists of the League of Rights
on the other, and it is pretty hard to be
paranoic about such an obvious and real
danger as international Communism, yel
there is at times a note in some RSL
varieties of anti-Communism which indi-
cates naivete, narrowmindedness, and, per-
haps, irresponsible fear-mongering. Lord
De L’lsle was probably partly thinking ol
these things when he called on RSL
members to “resist the well-known ten-
dency to allow our prejudices to harden
with our arteries.” In 1961 he had warned
the RSL of the dangers of “intolerance.”
Losing reputation with the pro-
Communist Left and its liberal skirt-
clutchers should, of course, trouble no
conscience, but a vulgar anti-Communism
of shallow self-interest, linked with des-
perate defences of the inhumanities of the
White Australia Policy, maudlin speeches
beyond Queen and Empire, and a batman’s
reflex servility to established institutions
and personalities, will not swell the
numbers of the RSL or make its name
more glorious.
A further problem its image-makers
confront is the fairly widespread and silly
hostility evoked by the term “pressure
group.” The RSL is widely known as a
“pressure group,” in fact it is probably
taken as Australia’s paradigm case of a
pressure group, and that immediately
projects a murky light on its activities.
The RSL is, of course, a pressure group,
despite its own occasional denials: better
by far to admit the fact and educate the
public to see that democracies always will
have such groups and cannot survive with-
out them.
The RSL has a wide band of interests.
It is permanently engaged in negotiations
with the Repatriation Department and the
various State Lands Departments on be-
half of the economic interests of its indi-
vidual. The New South Wales branch
paper, “Reveille,” estimated that in a
four-month period of 1961 the RSL’s War
Compensation Section wrote more than
1200 letters to the Repatriation Depart-
ment and received over 2000 replies. It
also campaigns for increased pensions.
So successful has it been in exerting
this kind of pressure that Sir William
Slim once suggested that the League should
not “go in too much for demanding con-
cessions for old soldiers,” a suggestion
which earned him a round of strong abuse
from the normally loyalist N.S.W. presi-
dent, Mr. Yeo, who concluded his speech:
“With all due respect to His Excellency,
I say bluntly that that is why the RSL is
here and why it has existed for over 30
years.”
To the Cabinet
'JHE League has in fact enjoyed a unique
position of privilege under the Liberal
administrations of the past 16 years, a
position described by the then Minister
for Repatriation, Mr. C. Swartz, in 1964,
in an extraordinary address to the South
Australian RSL Conference: “ . . . The
RSL is the only organisation in Australia
that has direct access to the Common-
wealth Government. You can take pride
in that ...”
However, the League is not only to be
considered as a pressure group. P. B.
Westerway has made out a good case for
calling it an “attitude group,” rather than
an interest group, because a lot of the
contact between the League and the Gov-
ernment is concerned with “unselfish”
issues: with getting better floodlighting for
the Cenotaph; with asking Education
Departments for more honor to Remem-
brance Day; with having the External
Affairs Department restore the Light
Horse Memorial at Port Said; and, of
course, with keeping the country free of
“non-whites.”
In the past five years the League has
come to regard itself, naturally enough,
as having a special overseeing role in
defence. The RSL National Congress
of 1961, faced with the temptation of
broadening its interests and becoming a
general pressure group on national issues,
decided to narrow its field of interest to
those concerning ex-servicemen speci-
fically. The congress rejected discussion
on a national insurance scheme, an inquiry
into the cost of farm implements, sub-
sidies for fertilisers, and the EEC.
However, in the cases of defence and
Communism the leaders of the League
feel they are entitled to enter the lists.
The defence committee of the national
executive meets regularly and also has
close contact with the Defence Depart-


Cinzano Vermouth is a great party drink; fashionable, and
not expensive. Superb in cocktails, it’s utterly enjoyable
straight and very cold, “on-the-rocks,” or with a little
soda. Add a professional touch by serving
CINZANO SWEET (red) with a lemon peel
CINZANO EXTRA DRY with an olive
CINZANO BIANCO (sweet white) with a cherry
CINZANO AMARO (pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
i
House founded 1757
Write to Cinzano. Birmingham Street, Alexandria, N.S.W., lor
"Have a Cinzano Party" folder.
ment. It is evident that it is privy to
inside information on our defence
problems and plans.
The only conflicts between the Com-
monwealth and the RSL so far in this
area have concerned the speed of our
military build-up: the League wants the
Regular Army divisions of nine battalions
brought to full strength quickly, the
CMF expanded to five divisions; and the
necessity for higher priority to be given
to defence measures for Papua and New
Guinea; and the length of service of troops
in Vietnam: the RSL explained that
fighting could break out at any time in
any part of Vietnam and that infantry-
men returning from search and destroy
operations were required to maintain
patrols on the Da Nang airbase: there was
not enough security anywhere for com-
plete rest.
Whether the Government will pay as
much attention to RSL opinions on
defence and Communism as it has to its
economic and social claims for ex-service-
men is open to heavy doubt, but if the
RSL wants to improve its general image,
as against its political power, the best
grounds lie in its welfare work. This in-
cludes institutions for war veterans and
their dependants, “Darby and Joan” cot-
tages, war widows’ flats, and permanent
social service bureaus. Employment
agencies were once a major part of the
social welfare work of each State branch,
and a lot of the assistance to needy ex-
servicemen and their dependants is pro-
vided without fuss or record by the in-
dividual sub-branches. As one ex-service-
man put it: “If I died tonight the first
men at the front door tomorrow morning
would be the secretary and president of
the local RSL with the club cheque-
book in their hands. And no questions
asked about ,the size of the bills.”
Levy for Asians
pHE annual welfare administration of the
Australian League runs into millions
of pounds, and it is surprising that so much
of this work is little known: much less
known than the RSL’s demands on Cab-
inet or its plans to combat Communism.
It is a sign of the times that the present
national executive is determined to pub-
licise the benevolent and social work of
the League in an effort to improve its
“blurry image.”
There are other negative and positive
signs of change. The League is now much
quieter about White Australia, the main-
tenance of which appeared one of its
major goals only a few years back. In
February, the president of the RSL, Mr.
A. J. Lee, announced, to the national
astonishment, that his organisation was
considering imposing a ten percent levy
on members to bring Asians on visits to
Australia.
Mr. Lee said the fund would be used to
bring young Asians to Australia so that
they would act as ambassadors for Aus-
tralia when they returned home. The
scheme will be put to national congress for
approval in October.
Another change is the recent dropping
°f the hallowed title “Returned Sailors,
Soldiers, and Airmen’s Imperial League of
Australia” for the plain “Returned Service-
men’s League.” There are also signs that
RSL snobbery about accepting only re-
turned men from theatres of war are
fading and the president believes that
“In the future the RSL may admit people
who have served in the forces anywhere
and in any capacity.” This kind of
status posturing does not die easily. For
example, until a few years ago not all
RSL sub-branches would admit service-
men from World War 11.
There are many odd features of the
RSL besides examples of .war snobbery.
One of the most surprising is the fact that
the League is not run by former top mili-
tary brass as are most of the world’s ex-
service organisations. As the Canadian
observer G. L. Kristianson noted, high-
ranking officers are more conspicuous by
their absence than their presence. However
conservative RSL policy may be, there has
been little control or serious influence by
“brasshats.”
The obvious problem of the RSL lies
in its diminishing potential membership,
that is, provided we do not suffer another
full-scale war. At the present rate the
League will last for perhaps 30 more years.
The national president believes that the
organisation may have to evolve along
community lines: “We have seen this
begin to happen already. In some places
where population is dwindling our build-
ings have become too large for our needs
and we have turned them over to the
towns as youth and community centres.
But let me repeat, we would be delighted
to go out of existence.”
Political pressure group, social organisa-
tion booze club, or welfare institution, the
RSL may be seen in many ways because
it is so many different things, and in all
of them so typically Australian. Is it too
much to hope that, like an old soldier, it
does not so much die as slowly fade
away?


m
m
m
Frontier Days, Cheyenne, Wyoming.
wfflm
s \
S I:
VI
r
11
Maine Seafoods Festival, Rockland, Maine.
FKsrrivAM.
MJHA-’GG
Vacation in the great
American outdoors
... and join in exciting festivals from
the Atlantic seaboard to the “last
frontier.”
Don’t miss the “golden State” of California
with its lush valleys, snowy Sierras and
rugged coast. Follow the Pacific from pic-
turesque Carmel to exciting Los Angeles.
Then to San Diego’s fascinating Old Town
and Zoo. Nearby is semi-tropical Laguna
Beach and the colorful Festival of Arts and
Pageant of the Masters (July 10-August 9)
where local artists exhibit their work and
living models re-create old masterpieces.
Frontiers of today and yesterday
For a unique vacation, choose unspoiled
Alaska, America’s last frontier, stretching
from forest-rimmed fjords to Arctic tundra.
Mingle with Eskimos, ride dogsleds and skin
boats, see huge Alaska bears! Commemorate
the gold rush at “Golden Days” (July 22-28)
in Fairbanks. Eskimo dances, parades, fun!
Discover the “wild west” in Idaho,
Montana and Wyoming. Stay at a dude
ranch and ride with cowboys along lofty
trails. Wonder at Yellowstone and Glacier
National Parks and thrill to Frontier Days
(July 26-31) at Cheyenne, the great rodeo
festival with bucking broncos, wagon races,
Indian dances!
Wheat fields, wilderness or ocean
In the vast plains of Kansas, Nebraska and
lowa you’ll find friendly towns set in miles of
waving wheat and corn.
A highlight of your trip; the lowa State Fair
(August 19-28) in Des Moines. Blooded live-
stock, sheep shearing and horseshoe pitching
contests and 75 marching bands make this a
festival of pure Americana.
Travel north to canoe through sky blue
waters —the forest lakes of Minnesota’s
wilderness. For contrast, see the twin cities:
terraced St. Paul; and lively Minneapolis to
enjoy the Aquatennial (July 15-24) with its
regattas, water skiing and glittering balls.
Historic New England is a world apart.
Visit New Hampshire for mountain scenery,
Maine for lakes or cruises along an island-
strewn coast of the Atlantic Ocean. And the
Maine Seafoods Festival (August 5-7) in
Rockland for feasts on famous lobsters,
clams and corn-on-the-cob.
Exciting new low fares in ’66
Many major airlines offer tremendous reduc-
m
i:
' 5
■
Minneapolis Aquatennial, Minnesota.
tions for 30 to 90 days. 99 days of unlimited
bus travel costs just $87.94, a late-model
American car, $87.94 a week with unlimited
rnileage and a free tank of gas. There are
big bargains in rail fares, too.
See your travel adviser or United States
Travel Service office for full information,
and also for a visit to an American home
in any of 52 cities.
Prices quoted Australian dollars.
United States Travel Service B 4
82 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free general information
about visiting the United States.
N ame
Street
City State
If for school project please check ( )
m
Travel a new world—
see the U.S.A.


Up from Frankenstein
“Gafiated” at the Science Fiction Convention
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Extraordinary to sit, on an
Easter Sunday in Melbourne—the
streets as deserted as they were in
“On The Beach,” full of echoing bells and
the peremptory chiming of clocks—in an
ancient loft watching a film in which a
disembodied hand scuttled wanly around
a library, ready to strangle all comers: but
this was par for the course on a weekend
in which, for the first time since 1958, the
tiny nucleus of science fiction devotees in
Australia held their seventh convention.
Chiefly because of lack of communica-
tion between cities, and because of the
lack of agents and publishers here, Aus-
tralian SF has had a rather tentative
existence since it first acquired addicts
back in the ’thirties. But at least three
writers —John Baxter, the youngest, Lee
Harding, and Damien Broderick, a pic-
turesquely lean and bearded acolyte of the
genre —have been published in the main
science fiction magazines internationally;
Baxter has a novel (“Gods in Darkness”)
coming from Ace in the U.S., and Harding
has been accorded the final accolade of
appearing in Penguin. ,
Chapters of the Futurians—an American
science fiction society—were formed here
as early as the ’thirties, the main one, in
Sydney, established by Vol Molesworth,
Bert Castellari, and Eric Russell in 1939.
The chapter issued a mimeographed news-
letter, and Vol Molesworth published a
science fiction book, “Blinded, They Fly,”
with the Futurian Press (another pioneer
author of Australian SF, Earl Cox, had
years before published the famous “Out
of the Silence” in England). SF maga-
zines came into Australia during the war
as ballast on ships (because they absorbed
water better than rocks), and huge bundles
of soggy Amazing Stories, Thrilling
Wonder Stories, Startling Stories, and so
on were dumped on quays and bought in
joblots by fans, who started a library rent-
ing them out.
By 1951 the fans had grown sufficiently
numerous to hold a conference in Sydney
to discuss SF activity; since then, con-
ferences have been held at very irregular
intervals. Chapters were formed in Can-
berra, Adelaide, and on Sydney’s North
Shore. The Melbourne SF Club, inde-
pendent of the others, went its own way.
In 1954 there was a rift in the Futurians:
one prominent figure, a bookseller named
Dave Cohen, formed a splinter group,
known as “The Bridge Club Group”;
since then, bitterness and conflicting fac-
tions have caused a decline of the
Futurians almost into non-existence,
although the chapter still is said to have a
Canberra box address.
SF followers here have frequently run
Fanzines” (SF" language for fan maga-
zines) which usually last out for only a
handful of issues and then peter out. x The
Melbourne SF Group s Fanzine Etherline
ran for 107 issues; John Baxter in Sydney
edited Bunyip, Quantum, and Double Star,
and there have been other local Fanzines.
They contain in-group humor (cynical and
iconoclastic for the most part) and run
competitions (there is an international one
going for the best pun; when this is found
the world will come to an end).
I asked John Baxter, one of the most
successful of Australian science fiction
writers (as well as having a hand in the
new Sydney film magazine “Film Digest”),
about the people who read these maga-
zines.
You start off in SF as a neo —someone
who is keen on SF but who doesn’t know
others are,” he told me. “Then you find out
there are others and you become a sercon.
A serious/constructive fan. You talk
about SF seriously. Then you become a
pubber—a publishing fan. That’s when
you start publishing your own magazine,
your fanzine.
“You publish about 150 copies and mail
them across the world to B.N.F. fans.”
What are they? “There are 20 in the
world. These are the Big Name Fans.
People who are so popular and well known
through years of correspondence with
others and through publications of their
own that they are taken to the U.S.A. by
TAFF—the Transatlantic Fan Fund, sub-
scribed to by fans in America—and all
expenses are paid.
“Finally, you become a pro. Now
you’re out of fandom. You write, get a
reputation. The most famous pros are
Arthur B. Glarke, Robert Heinlein, Ray
Bradbury, Kurt Vonnegut, and Edgar
Pangborn.
“Yes, there are a few pros here.” Baxter
mentioned Bert Chandler, Lee Harding,
and others.
“Of course,” he added, “SF has a
philosophy. It encourages a nihilistic
attitude. There is no reason why people
should be good or bad. When there was
feeling against a well-known homosexual
coming to a U.S. convention the fans
rallied to his defence and said he must
be admitted. There is no moral code.
“There is a special god for fans, Ghu.
He is especially for fans. Fans do not
believe in God. ‘Fans,’ one of the earliest
SF founders, Claude Degler, said, ‘were the
chosen people, they were star-begotten!’
“There is another god, Roscoe. He
looks after fan publishers. We are all
one huge family. You tape respond,
‘write,’ to each other with messages.” Mr.
Baxter mentioned one SF figure’s mistress,
another’s homosexuality. But how did he
know so much about people he had never
met;’ “You know everyone’s life in SF.
There are no secrets.” But it sounded like
a secret society, didn’t it? “Ii has been
investigated by police.”
I asked Baxter if he qualified as a fan.
“No, I’m a gafiate. I’ve gafiated.” What?
“I’m a get-away-from-it-aller.”
At Melbourne, I dropped in to see the
various neos, sercons, pubbers, BNFs, and
gafiates in action. Unfortunately, two of
the most potentially interesting delegates
to the convention—Don Tuck, a mysterious
Tasmanian who has compiled the world’s
largest science fiction bibliography, and
Bert Chandler, perhaps the most suc-
cessful Australian SF author and a worker
on a ship plying the Australian coast —we/e
unable to attend. Of those present, onlv
Damien Brodeiick, Lee Harding, and John
Baxter had achieved international publi-
cation; the rest, one gathered, were for
the most part simply enthusiasts.
Introduced with a splendid clap of
thunder and a shower of rain, the conven-
tion was defiantly opened on Good Friday
in a ramshackle building that appeared
to have been put together out of barrel
planks. The only lift—mercifully out of
“Why, I’ve been here so long, I’d almost forgotten what another man looks
like”


Symbol of the lavish new Singapura Intercontinental is the lion. He
appears in mosaic at the bottom of the hotel’s cabana-pool; again, in a
quartet outside the chic Four Lions supper club. General Manager George
Milne provides every room with air-conditioning, private balcony, superb
views. Some lion's den! Call your travel agent or Intercontinental for
reservations-by Panamac.
"“‘Singapura
One of 31 incomparable Intercontinentals around the world.
action—was one of the four remaining in
Melbourne that are operated by water.
Around the convention room, against the
pale green walls, displays of famous SF
authors and their book covers gazed down
at the mostly young and bespectacled
members. Flanking the motion picture
screen facing the squashed-looking green
leather cinema seats across a ping-pong
table were huge photographs of H. G.
Wells and the latest SF fave, J. G. Ballard,
with “Rexque Defunctus” printed boldly
over Wells and “Rexque Futurus” over
Ballard. The first session opened with an
auction of 100 out of a total 000-odd items,
mostly magazines fiom the vintage SF
peiiod (late foities, early fifties), with
pictures of breasty women being pursued
by octopuses, attacked by rockets and
snakes, and in one splendid example, slip-
ping gleefully into the throat of a giant
man-eating orchid The brisk auctioneer
knew s lns wares: You can see through her
dress, Garish-vaguely sexy. Some tat-
teied magazines fetched as much as two
dollais a throw.
That night there was a screening of a
film, “The Flaunting,” about a house
possessed by a nameless horror, and
“Metropolis,” Fritz Lang’s durable master-
piece about a city of the future and its
robot inhabitants, ignobly jeered by the
audience. Next afternoon, a group of the
writers, Baxter, Harding, and Stephen
Cook, took part in a writer’s session to
which overseas notables had sent messages.
The discussion was very brisk: somebody
in the audience said SF was “something I
read when f don’t want to think,” and
that “we might as well discuss ‘The
Heart of Juliet Jones.’ ” One writer on
the panel said that when he was to address
a Melbourne literary society on SF he was
asked to change the title of the talk
from “Science Fiction” to “Prophetic
Literature.” Someone said that the only
well-written science fiction book he had
read was “Magister Ludi,” by Herman
Hesse,
,rp HE general consensus was, though, that
SF was a f orm 0 f literature, and that
both the market and the quality were
better than they had ever been. The days
of the g ad g ets and the “technical” stories
had for good> the we ird “creatures”
had disappearedj and nowadays SF tended
tQ be more a pers onal expression of a
ph il6sophy, the stories subjective and
drea mlike. In the sellers’ market that
now exists (the dema nd for SF is huge
and insatiable) more and more films and
TV seides are be i ng made. Translations
occur j n many languages—the style is
ap t to be much subtler, more literary
(although one of the taped speakers, the
top SF British literary agent Ted Carnell,
sa i d that sex was creeping more and more
i nto SF). The characters certainly are
] ess cardboard, more authentic, and fully
rounded.
The Australian writers, one taped
speaker complained, failed to come to
grips with their own background sufficiently
(an exception is John Baxter) and fol-
lowed overseas modes too completely.
There was a serious breakdown of com-
munication between local authors (several
delegates felt), and a need for a magazine
to bring the writers and fans together
and to contain information on overseas
markets. One delegate felt that there
should be an agent here, farming material
overseas: too often writers stopped writing,
drifted away, because of the lack of pres-
sure such an agent could put upon them.
Perhaps the most interesting delegate
was Lee Harding, one of the most notable
of Melbourne portrait photographers,
whose sales to the top SF magazines are
very impressive: he is internationally
known through them. His “Quest”
appeared in “New Worlds” in Britain
and in the Penguin anthology “Lambda
One”; it has been translated into German.
Another story, “Terminal,” also helped to
gain him a big reputation. And another
story appeared in “New Writings in SF”
(Dennis Dobson), one of the top SF
anthologies.
His stories, Harding said, were all
highly personal psychological fantasies:
“Quest,” for instance, was the story of
a man in a future in which everything was
artificial, trying to find out what flowers
smelt like, how it had been to exist in a
world where things lived: “Finally, ho
finds out that he, too, is artificial.” The
stories, Harding said, had sprung from a
period when he was an agnostic: “They
provided a kind of do-it-yourself God kit,
a means of explaining the universe to
myself.” And “Quest” had sprung from
a simple experience: seeing an artificial
flower, and the disgust it caused in him.
The whole meeting proved that there
is a small but positive nucleus of SF
thinkers in the country; but, as I said
earlier, that the old problem of lack of
communication between writers weighs
them down. For instance, one of the
sharpest questioners was Dick Jennsen, a
professor in meteorology at the University
of Melbourne who has worked in the
United States at Ohio State University
for two years and is shortly to return
because he finds Australia stultifying. He,
one feels, would contribute to the small
body of work being done here, but the
stimulus just isn’t there.
Luckily, the convention didn’t end on
this sad note. On Sunday night, John
Baxter showed that splendid condensation
of “The Beast With Five Fingers”—about
a disembodied hand which scuttles all over
a mansion like a crab, frightening the
occupants and on one occasion essaying
a concerto composed for the right hand;
“The Bride of Frankenstein,” about a
woman with a tall electric bush of hair
made up to wed the monster out of bits
of murdered girls only to greet her pros-
pective mate with screams of disapproval;
and “Dr. X,” about a man who trans-
formed his flesh into a vegetable substance
that could, he thought, outlast centuries,
only to catch fire and fall down a cliff
into the sea. After that, not even the
most dubious of the delegates could doubt
that the Seventh Australian Science
Fiction Convention had been worth while.


IN SYDNEY
"It's not that kind of vigil, kid."
' "Those vitamin pills you just sold me have put zing
into my step, improved my sluggish circulation and
sharpened my appetite to pinch you for after hours trading."
“He's a Vietnam casualty
knocked down in the rush
to get war contracts."
"And just what is it you're protesting about Mr. DylgnP"


<***..
*■ *k
m
R-2000
Why settle for a fast-disappearing rear
view of the Rover 2000? Come on in—
the viewing’s fine from the inside looking
out. No matter whether you’re ready to
buy just yet. Even if you only want to feel
like a millionaire for a few minutes, come
and seat yourself in luxury. Your Rover
dealer won’t mind a scrap—he knows
that people suddenly develop the ability
to save like crazy, once they fall under
the spell of a ‘2ooo’. This ‘spell’ is com-
pounded of many things: The subtle lux-
ury of African Walnut panelling. The im-
mensely satisfying smell of real leather.
The out-of-this-world comfort of Rover's
anatomically perfect bucket seats (your
rear passengers get buckets, tool). The
inch-thick foam padding on the dash, at
your knees, on the backs of the front
seats, everywhere. The thick carpets.
The column-less steering wheel that ad-
justs up and down. The aircraft-style
instrument panel with its 19 switches and
TIRED OF THIS VIEW?
mistm
m
mmm
TRY THIS ONE!
RDVn
2000
toggles. And, above all, the rock-steady
ride at speeds up to and over the “ton”,
the magnificent feeling of confidence
that this car engenders more than any
other. Sample all this —and more—and
you could find yourself asking a ques-
tion: “Who says I can’t afford one?"
Well, for a start, petrol consumption is
lower. Maintenance is lower. The body
panels are individually removable so you
can leave one at the panel beaters and
drive the car home.* In actual fact, if
you’re prepared to keep a Rover 2000 a
little longer than has been your custom
(and you’ll find that no hardship!) it could
cost you very little more than run-of-the-
mill motoring. Have you ever thought
about that? Really thought about it?
ROVER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(*This is the same principle that lets you have
your pants pressed without leaving your body at
the cleaners.)
Anio3sß


The Origin of Design
No aspirations toward good taste
By PATRICIA ROLFE
GOOD design can without much
trouble be made to sound quite as
boring as good works and to imply
the same interference with the simple
pleasures such as having a set of
kitchen canisters each of a different color
of the average person.
In recent years, much of Australia’s
idea of good design seems to have become
clouded with the British view of it. The
British discovered good design about a
decade ago, fairly late in the day when
you come to think of it. Thereafter we
had the Duke of Edinburgh walking
around an exhibition of crockery, being
witty about the latest tea-set (designed
to put value back into the pound and
British exporters back on top), while
somewhere out the back Lord Snowdon
was busy fashioning a most amusing bird-
cage.
Mr. E. E. Underwood, an officer of the
Industrial Design Council of Australia,
who is in charge of the new design centre
in Sydney in the initial stages, said he had
vivid recollections of a pair of nutcrackers,
which had been given a Duke of Edin-
burgh award for design in Britain, and
which seemed destined to crack a few
knuckles with every nut.
The Australian Council seems to think
on a much more practical level, and, ap-
parently, has no aspirations to establish
nebulous good taste in every department
of our lives. Perhaps they just despair.
The council has a base subsidy of
$40,000 a year from the Department of
Trade (until recently it was $20,000), and,
according to Mr. Underwood, its primary
aim is to encourage design, good enough
to get manufacturers out of the home
market and into the export field. The
field in which he thinks Australian de-
signers, and, hence, later exporters, will
be most successful is in light engineering
and small agricultural machinery. Conse-
quently, he can get more excited about
a 44-gallon drum pump than about an
electric jug or a plastic cup.
The idea of design is then closely linked
for the Australian Council with the prob-
lem of mass production in a small popu-
lation. If manufacturers can lift their
production by acquiring overseas markets
with better designs, then these articles
will, of course, also be available on the
home market. Higher production for ex-
port could also in time do away with
local manufacturers producing a new
model every six months, each shrieking for
the consumer’s attention, the sort of thing
you notice particularly in the electrical
appliances field.
The Industrial Design Council of Aus-
tralia was set up in 1957 largely on the
inspiration of Essington Lewis. The head
office is in Melbourne, but it has now
opened a centre in Sydney, larger than the
Melbourne one and on the ground floor, as
opposed to a first-floor situation in Mel-
bourne.
The council seems to have moved north
of the border because it has been frozen
out of its base State. The council, as well
as help from Trade (including a special
grant of $20,000 to open the Sydney
centre, but nothing to run it) and private
firms, gets subsidies from the New South
Wales Government and from Western
Australia, but has never received anything
from the Victorian Government.
The centre in Sydney opened in the
same week that the Victorian Premier,
Sir Henry Bolte, was preparing to leave
for overseas on his fourth trip to induce
more overseas investment in Victoria and
more overseas companies to manufacture
here. Apparently, he is considerably less
interested in inducing Victorian manufac-
turers to build up their markets.
Although the hew centre is attractive,
it still has an aura of good intentions
which are never likely to be realised about
it. This is, of course, because the amount
of money the council has to do its job
is still pitifully small. Hanging like a cloud
above it is the vast apathy of the average
Australian businessman. In most cases, Mr.
Underwood said, contributions from
private enterprise (which are matched
dollar for dollar by the Trade Depart-
ment) tend to be small ones from big
companies and bigger ones from small
companies.
“The big companies have their licences
to manufacture goods designed overseas
and often that’s as far as they can see it,”
Mr. Underwood said. “But you sometimes
get good, enterprising smaller firms. What
we need, of course, is for things not to
be quite so easy. During the credit squeeze
in 1960-61 it was surprising how much
more interest manufacturers took in our
work, but as soon as things brightened
up, they fell away again.”
The centre displays goods which have
been awarded a good-design seal by the
council’s judging panel. The seal is some-
thing which, according to Mr. Underwood,
means a good deal more to overseas busi-
nessmen than it does here. Displays will
be changed and will go on tour.
The difference between a well-designed
article and a badly designed one is often,
as Mr. Underwood points out, very small.
If the centre expects members of the
general public there in numbers, it might
be advisable sometimes to explain just
why some items are considered better
than others on the market.
For instance, there is a set of plastic
tableware which it turns out is not
generally intended for retail sale, al-
though a Malayan Sultan bought two
sets during a trade exhibition in Asia.
The tableware is designed with an eye
to use by airline companies. The saucer
is deep enough to be picked up without
tipping the cup over. The cup has a
handle into which a finger can hook
easily and as well it has a flat surface at
the top so that the thumb can also grip
the cup, a safety factor during turbulence.
A waterspray has been built on the lines
of a snow ski. The ski was originally de-
signed to slide over lumps and bumps
and the spray will slide easily and not
tip over. A covered ovenproof casserole
dish has handles which curve like a lip.
The curve on the lower half of the dish
helps safe handling and the double curve
makes it easier to prise hot dishes apart.
There is an adjustable reading-lamp,
based on the principle of the human arm
(with a skeleton arm displayed alongside
it), which can be turned through almost
every angle.
Then there is the Shepherd castor, de-
signed by a Victorian in the late ’forties,
based on a simple sphere rather than on
the wheel, and capable of moving its
burden in all directions instead of just
one. Such a simple idea why didn’t
someone think of it before? and now
used throughout the world. But, you think,
a whole generation and that is the sum
of our achievement?


Pick, ft, pouchy
AMPHORA
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
a
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
SAI7S/1
AMPHORA
There's a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
(jjjh
1 miOCT OF DOONE ECiEITS lOTU FRCTOIIEJ, UTRECHT, lOLIUI
ON THE MARGIN
Too few good fish in the sea
FISHING is surrounded by an aura of
romance, tradition, mythology,
mystique. Its many dreaming
devotees shrink from confronting unpleas-
ant facts. However, I am not a devotee,
and I am prepared to risk odium by this
blunt statement: the fishing around Aus-
tralia, by and large, is lousy.
The catfish was let out ot the bag lately
by Mr. M. Joseph, chairman of the
N.S.W. Fish Authority. He said: “More
than 50 percent of the fish now on sale
in Sydney shops is imported.” Here we
are with a relatively small population,
surrounded by vast oceans—and our sea-
food consists largely of English sole and
kippers, New Zealand blue cod, and
Japanese tinned salmon. It is humiliating.
As far as Sydney is concerned, there
is reason to believe that the fishing has
always been lousy. An Army officer
stationed there in 1795 complained in his
diary that he could not catch anything.
A walk around the foreshores any weekend
confirms that the situation is unchanged.
One sees rapt, intense rock fishermen,
indifferent to danger as they cast out into
the waves. One sees stoics dangling lines
from boats in boiling heat, stirring only to
open another bottle of beer. But hardly
ever does one see anybody catching a fish.
At resorts up and down the N.S.W.
coast, the catching of fish is a peculiar
activity confined to the past tense. This
disappointing state of affairs was
expounded definitively by (I think) Banjo
Paterson in the poem You Should Have
Been Here Last Week. At places I have
visited, the message is usually conveyed by
a storekeeper who says: “The jewies have
been biting off the Point.” After hiring a
boat and anchoring off the Point, one
finds that the jewfish have ceased biting.
Not that these excursions are altogether
wasted. At North Haven, for example, I
saw a store with a sign—possibly unique
in the Commonwealth that said:
LIBRARY AND BAIT.
I do not deny that at some places, at
some times, fish are caught. During the
Ampol Fishing Competition at The
Entrance some years ago, my wife caught
a flathead; her astonishment rendered her
temporarily speechless. The competition
provided a very entertaining outing. But
the company has stopped holding fishing
competitions, the reputed reason being
its disillusionment over the ethics of com-
petitors.
The entries included fish caught in
advance and kept alive in rock pools, fish
that had been dead before the competition
started (and showed it), fish bought from
professional fishermen, and fish weighted
internally with sinkers. Men accustomed to
the plain, straightforward methods of the
oil business could not cope with the
Macchiavellian cunning of Australian
anglers. This ruthless spirit has been
developed over the years because so many
of them compete for so few fish.
The pre-Easter fish shortage in Sydney
was worse than ever this yean Panic
prices were paid even for the plebeian
mullet. These were the circumstances in
which the N.S.W. Fish Authority sent out
its now famous message to fishermen:
“Keep fishing.”
It needs no effort of imagination to
understand the effect of this moving
appeal. Weary rock fishermen coming
home after an unrewarding day went
back to their rocks. “We can’t let the
old Fish Authority down,” said one.
Trawler crews cancelled social engage-
ments and resumed trawling. “Our duty
to the public must come before pleasure,”
was a typical comment. Sunburned men
in dinghies paused only to take aboard
more beer before returning to their chosen
spots. Their view was: “If the Govern-
ment tells us to keep fishing, we’ll keep
fishing.”
With local supplies less and less
adequate, such appeals to the patriotism
of fishermen are likely to continue. We
are a fish-poor country. We must intensify
the efforts to catch what fish we have.
Otherwise the English kipper and the
N.Z. cod will increase their grip on the
market. The word must go out: “The
jewies have been biting off the Point.
The Fish Authoritv expects that every
fisherman will do his duty.”
ROSS CAMPBELL


Life as a Waugh Novel
m
“You may as well laugh as cry. ”
By DONALD HORNE
I WALKED past the kitchen where my
wife was listening to the news on the
radio. Something that sounded like
“war” and “dead” occurred. My wife
said something.
“What was that?”
“I think he said Evelyn Waugh’s dead.”
“What?”
“Evelyn Waugh’s dead.”
“I know.”
“How did you know?”
“I worked it out while you were talk-
ing.”
The contrast between the apparent in-
consequence of this conversation and the
fact that something of significance had
just happened seemed apt to the work of
the dead novelist.
I bought my first Evelyn Waugh novels
(was it for 9d?) when they came out in
Penguin, before the war, when I was a
perplexed, unhappy, and sceptical high
school boy seeking many escapes.
One of the escapes was from the
Romantic Movement, about which I had
to write gush at school so that I could
pass exams to go to the University to
become a teacher, so that I could teach
other boys to write gush about the
Romantic Movement.
I was on the lookout for books that were
related to my own view of things. When
my English teacher had warned us against
Hardy’s pessimism, I had made the 40-
minutq trip in the electric train to the
city to stock up in Hardy at the Sydney
Municipal Library. However, by the time
I came across Waugh on a railway book-
stall, I had turned from Pessimism to
Comedy: I was reading Ben Jonson.
As I read the Waugh novels there came
that sense of relevance that perhaps did
not occur so strongly again until four
years later when (with the university now
behind me) I picked up a copy of “The
Red and the Black” in the Library of a
YMCA hut in an army training camp and
took it back to my tent to read.
There is a lot of stuff you read in books
that has only a connective literary
relevance: one book is relevant to another
and as you read on you build up the pat-
terns of traditional literary views of life.
To many literary people books consist of
little more than this.
Then, not all that often in a lifetime,
there are the books that make you wonder:
How does this man happen to see things
as I see them? How has he avoided being
“literary” and cut through to what I
know? How does he know?
Waugh’s understanding of the contrast
between the insouciance of “decision,”
often mere accident, and of the inexorably
limiting nature of what then follows,
which makes you go this way rather than
that, seemed relevant to what I had
already observed: that the saddest of
events could follow from “decisions” or
accidents that were usually themselves
matters of frivolity.
Nothing very much in itself, of course.
Like any other great truth it was some-
thing one knew before. A well-read high
school boy ends up knowing everything
better.
It was the way he wrote about it that
distinguished it, bringing out its contem-
porary relevance. I don’t mean just sen-
tence by sentence- —although in this nar-
rower sense of “style” no one did better
than Waugh in solving one of the modern
writer’s problems: how to cast off old
rhetoric, without adopting a neo-primitiv-
ism.
Age of Cry Babies
B UT his style went beyond that, to a
deft handling of the whole struc-
ture and material of his novels, so that
a view of life came through that survived
and overrode the mere matter of what he
was saying: not so much a view of life
as an approach to it: that life is absurd
compared with the aspirations we have
about it, but that you may as well laugh
as cry.
It was superb to have pulled this off
with clarity and wit in an age when the
vogue has been more for cry babies, dis-
playing their sensitivity or their general
state of confusion like children making
the great discovery that they are sitting
in their own piddle.
To sustain this, it was necessary for
Waugh to disregard modern subjectivism
and, apart from the sketchiest attention to
what might be going on in the minds of
his passive and set-upon central characters,
to concentrate on the observable external
behaviour of all concerned —and leave it
at that.
He seemed to accept one of the many
limitations of our unsatisfactory human
condition: that all we know of the feel
of human consciousness is what we can
observe of what happens inside us, and
this dimly because we are both observed
and observer; and that all we know of
other people is what we see and hear
them do.
One can accept the confusions of life,
but one can present confusion with clar-
ity; not necessarily with sorrow, perhaps
simply with interest, perhaps in a way
that so affronts the patterns that our up-
bringing has tried to impose on us that we
laugh.
Recalling how I bought those Penguins
at the railway station nearly 30 years
ago presents me with a puzzle. Did my
life subsequently turn out something like
an Evelyn Waugh novel, because that’s
the way life goes? Or because, having
read Evelyn Waugh, I was determined
that this was how life should be?


from
Crane’s copper
many things
are made
Car radiators, hot water services, copper tube, and
many of the roofs of today's modern buildings
come from Crane's copper. Crane roll it, cut it, coil
it or extrude it to meet the many demands of other
industry. But not only copper. They also semi-
fabricate aluminium and brass. The eyelets in
your shoes may have been formed from Crane
brass strip and the bodies on some of today’s
buses have been fabricated from Crane aluminium.
Not forgetting that Crane themselves make the
largest and most complete range of brassware in
Australia. There’s nothing magical about Crane's
business, though. It's based on the learnings of
100 years experience and this same unmatched
experience they are only too anxious to pass on
to all their clients. Contact the Crane Office in
your state. N.S.W., 74 0351: Vic., 35 4316: Q’ld.,
60 4041: S.A., 57 8019: W.A., 23 1441.
►>%»
iSS,
■ v.w
.Wn
■*J«S
*s^
( V>X
<3T
CRANE COPPER & ALUMINIUM PTY. HTD. I 1 CRANE PRODUCTS
PTY. LTD. HU G. E. CRANE PTY. LTD.tZZJ CRANE ENFIELD METALS
pty. ltd. nr:r;i crane (vic.) pty. ltd. r — n c. o. n. pty. ltd
WATSON & CRANE PTY. LTD. 1~ ~'~l BRALCO PTY. LTD. IT" 1
CRANE
GROUP
CP222


OVERSEAS
Is there a Famine in India?
Indian Pride and Foreign Pique
From CYRIL DUNN IN NEW DELHI
IS there a faminine in India? President
Johnson, announcing that America
was increasing the 6,500,000 tons of
grain being sent to India to 10 million
tons, said last week: “We may stand at this
moment on the threshold of a great
tragedy,” and he added: “Unless the world
responds, India faces famine.”
On the other hand, Mrs. Indira Gandhi,
the Indian Prime Minister, said as
she has said before during her visit to
Washington that there was no famine,
though she admitted that India was con-
fronted with a difficult food situation.
She has already blamed the foreign Press
for magnifying India’s plight. She has
told her Parliament of her “deep distress
at the exaggerated picture of starving
India which is being projected in the
world.”
This sounds like a snub to the world’s
kindness and has already caused annoy-
ance abroad. The Norwegian Red Cross
is reported here as saying that if Mrs.
Gandhi maintains there is no Indian
famine and reacts with “repugnance” to
foreign charity, going ahead with rescue
plans would seem to be pointless.
It cannot always be easy to sympathise
with Indian pride, which sometimes ex-
presses itself with an almost neurotic
vehemence. The headline put on the
news from Norway in a strongly nationalist
weekly here reads: “They’re sorry there’s
no famine in India!”
But voices such as these rise from
centuries of humiliation by foreigners and
from the disappointment of those who
thought their freedom had been won,
but find themselves still in economic
chains.
Mrs. Gandhi is, of course, intensely
proud of India, hates anything that hurts
her country’s reputation and is some-
times extravagant in her defence of it.
One can readily believe that this strong
emotion alone inspires her now. In fact,
her view of the food crises does seem
to have been over-simplified. She believes
the idea has been put about that thousands
of Indians are already dropping dead
from starvation, without being able to
name any foreign newspaper in which this
remarkable dispatch appeared. She in-
sists that there have been no starvation
deaths and adds that her Government
will strain every nerve to prevent any-
thing of the sort from happening.
Even so, Congress Party leaders have
strong political reasons for playing the
famine down. The country is on the verge
of its fourth election, and the Congress
might suffer at the polls for having pre-
sented proud India to the world as the
Mendicant Society.
But its cry for help was answered, not
only by the American Government, but
also by ordinary people all over the world.
Many Indians were bitterly ashamed be-
cause it had been made to appear that
their great nation had to rely on the self-
sacrifice of Dutch and Italian children
for its food. They were not upset about
the kindness; they were deeply touched
by it. But they blamed the failures of the
Congress Government for having forced
them into the role of beggars.
To outsiders it might seem that India
is simply the victim of a natural disaster.
But Indians point out that after 18 years
of Congress rule vast areas of Indian
agriculture still have to depend, as in a
primitive society, entirely upon rain. They
also allege that in times of relative plenty
the Government has not done enough to
conserve stocks and that in times of
scarcity it has failed to organise fair
shares.
It is perhaps natural for the Government
to insist that India’s predicament has been
exaggerated and to risk showing lack of
grace by asserting that it never sought the
pocket-money of small Italians. But this
must seem a dangerous course for Congress
to take. The next three hot months are the
real time of trial. Until this period is
safely over, the spectre of famine will stand
in the wings and might gain strength from
being dismissed as an illusion.
There are still many reasons for uneasi-
ness and this is partly because India’s pre-
dicament is not due solely to the failure
of the rains. As the fields, rivers and wells
dried up so did the nation’s reserves of
foreign exchange, for reasons unconnected
with the weather. They were running low
even before India and Pakistan committed
to war the time, energy and resources
they could not spare.
As a result of the war foreign economic
aid was suspended. A long bubble of
emptiness has formed in the pipeline of in-
dustrial supplies. In the next two or three
months —the period of maximum stress on
the food front —many of India’s new in-
dustries are likely to close down and thou-
sands of urban workers will have no money
to buy food, even if supplies of it are abun-
dant.
The lessons of Kerala
violent food riots in
Kerala and West Bengal have hinted
ominously at unrest in the country. It
could be that unless food reaches the
people quickly and in fair shares, this,
combined with other frustrations, will
cause upheavals seriously impeding the
distribution of food. And the riots also
uncovered weaknesses and failings in
Indian society which might also hinder a
rescue operation.
Acute scarcity the officially acknow-
ledged condition of the country—is not
evenly spread. Some States are xelatively
better off than others. But what happened
in Kerala showed that for wholly selfish
reasons —the fear of going short themselves
—plump States had to be bullied by Delhi
before they would help their neighbors.
And inside Kerala itself, where the rice
ration had been cut to a third of a work-
ing man’s minimum need, more than a
million tons of rice had not been fed into
the rationing system, but had been kept
for sale at high prices.
The lessons of Kerala seemed to make
little impact on West Bengal. Here, after
a heavy cut in rice supplies from Delhi,
officials evidently failed in their duty. Be-
cause of this, plans well laid to alleviate
distress served only to aggravate it. Enough
food simply did not reach the hungry dis-
tricts, but flowed through the official cor-
dons into a black market flourishing in
India’s hour of need.
Of course, the whole rescue plan itself
has a basic weakness. American aid is
mostly wheat, and over wide areas of
India the people will eat only rice, of
which there is a world shortage. This
addiction is not fanciful, but deeply
emotional one of several reasons why
Indians are difficult to feed and not
only emotional. Rice can be eaten by
itself, wheat can’t you have to take
other things with it that the poor can’t
afford. When people here eat wheat, it’s
in the form of a small pancake and rice-
eaters don’t know how to make it.
And finally there is a shortage of drink-
ing water, about which very little can be
done. In parched Rajasthan strings of
camels are carrying water-skins to the
fringes of the desert, and no doubt other
devices will be used. But through the next
three hot, dry months the danger of epi-
demic is real.
All this seems to call for a massive
popular effort here in India. Such an up-
surge of common endeavor occurred
during the battle against Pakistan, when,
for example, a body called Meals for
Millions rushed 10,000 nutro-biscuits to
India’s best-fed sons her soldiery
and the whole road from Delhi to the
Front was lined with voluntary canteens.
There are no signs of a similar upsurge
for the battle against hunger. Plans have
certainly been laid by the Governments
of Delhi and the States to see that nobody
starves. But it is hard to believe that
these plans wall always work without full
co-operation of the people and . now
the people have been lulled by the news
that the Great Indian Famine may be
an illusion.
Things being as they are, it must seem
obvious India still needs the world’s help.
In her present crisis those who can help
her even a little should surely not be
deterred by pique.


mm
-■V.
. •
■■ .
HI
:!^
:. ,
Hi
m
<2
sm?
% 3i#
11
ii Jk* v
v ‘ ' .. .
.
, -'
Why do so many businessmen fly TAA?
Because TAA is a successful
business enterprise
TAA is a business enterprise required
to make a profit and pay a dividend just
like any other commercial undertaking.
And people naturally prefer to do business
with sound, competent enterprises.
The Airline is operated by the Australian
National Airlines Commission, in the same way
as a public company is controlled by a board of
directors.
I\% DIVIDEND
TAA has a capital of $15,000,000, unchanged
since 1961.
Out of a net profit for 1964/65 of $1,409,052
TAA’s 74% dividend to the Treasury absorbs
$1,125,000.
TAA PAYS TAX
TAA is subject to income tax, payroll tax, sales
tax, etc., normally met by other commercial en-
terprises, and has to pay special tax on aviation
fuel and air route charges as well.
In its operation TAA enjoys no special privi-
leges over its competitors. TAA must win every
passenger and pound of air cargo in open business
competition.
BUSINESS EFFICIENCY
The, fact that TAA gains the greater overall
share of the competitive passenger market is in-
dicative of TAA’s business efficiency.
The continued business success of TAA helps
to preserve the competition vital to a healthy
airline industry.
BENEFITS OF COMPETITION
This competition guarantees that every Austra-
lian will continue to enjoy the right to choose by
which airline he will fly, or consign air cargo.
Competition also helps maintain the highest
standards of service for Australian air travellers.
Supporters of free enterprise, in placing busi-
ness with TAA, are preserving for themselves
these benefits of business competition in the air-
line industry.
*JTJk M
a MM.
(■ the Friendly Way
TAA is in business for your business
89/OE96VVA


' V
STEEL PIPE
fOR THE
BUILDING
Industry
. :
:l:»W
In any major building project today there
are miles of steel pipe and fittings. Pipes
for water, gas, heating, steel tubes for
scaffolding, balustrades, roof trusses,
stanchions. All are obtainable from
Stewarts and Lloyds who for more than
a century have been handling steel tube.
The large number of Tubular steel struc-
tures and installations built and building
all over Australia also shows the growing
popularity of steel tube as a structural
medium. There is a Stewarts and Lloyds
branch in all capital cities ready to advise
or service you.
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin, Alice Springs, Launceston. AGENCIES: Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
5PG.4365
Singapore’s
Fix
Avoiding a second Cuba
WHETHER recognised by Indonesia
or not, the disadvantage of being so
Socialist and Chinese, however
neutralist and anti-Communist, in these
days of Power blocs, and Mao Tse-tung, is
being brought sharply home to the leaders
of Mr. Lee Kuan Yew’s democratic
Socialist Government of Singapore, as it
struggles for something more than bare
economic survival eight months after
separation from Malaysia. Singapore could
benefit enormously if trade with Indo-
nesia followed recongition—provided this
did not intensify Singapore’s own con-
frontation with Malaysia.
The feeling remains among Singapore’s
leaders that Western nations have not yet
appreciated that this Commonwealth
country’s economy is the key to its resist-
ance to domestic Communist agitation.
Singapore is a tiny pinprick island
State, dependent for survival on external
trade. It is surrounded by hostile, or
theoretically friendly but indifferent,
Asian neighbors, with their own economic
and political axes to grind. Singapore
now faces a burgeoning crisis of un-
employment and commercial recess that
could quite shortly say in two or three
years place Mr. Lee’s multi-racial,
moderate, and progressive Government at
the mercy of its only serious political
opponents who are Left-wing ex-
tremists or Communists and, like him,
Chinese.
Only about a quarter the size of
Luxembourg, it has a growing population
of about 1,800,000, mostly Chinese. It
has no natural resources, and has depended
in the past on a flourishing entrepot
trade based on good relations with
Malaysia and Indonesia. That it has little
industry is one major headache, unemploy-
ment is another.
Ironically, a good slice of Singapore’s
unemployment problem stems from the
admirably efficient and well-intentioned
social policies of Mr. Lee’s dynamic
Government. It is Singapore’s proud
boast that an enormous chunk of the
annual budget goes toward the education
of the island’s youth about half as
much again, in fact, as the sum allotted
to defence, police, and social services.
One of the most striking features of
modern Singapore is the number of airy,
well-constructed primary schools there
are now almost too many of them and
secondary schools.
At noon the city’s main roads teem
with schoolchildren, Chinese, Malayan,
or Indian, in neat white shorts, shirts, or
gymslips, swarming homeward for lunch
like plump minnows in a fish-farm pool.
The outlook for many of them is not
bright; 50,000 boys and girls leave school
every year. At least 25,000 of them
expect immediate jobs. Most of them do
not find them.
Partly, the trouble lies with the pre-
judices of over-proud parents, to whom
the thought that little Ah Sing, little
Ahmed or little Krishna might have to
take to unbecoming manual work, such
as plumbing or carpentry, is anathema.
Living as more and more of them do—
thanks again to a staggeringly energetic
Government housing program—in new
flats furnished rather lavishly as much for
family prestige considerations as for
comfort, Singapore parents cling to the
dream of sons in shirts and ties commut-
ing to Government or commercial offices,
and the prospect of pensions. Comple-
mentary to this dream is the fact that
Singapore’s university is geared largely
to the Arts rather than to technical train-
ing.
Unemployment stands today at about
50,000, or about 15 percent of the labor
force. By 1968 there will be at least
100,000 Singaporeans out of work, and
the number will be rising. It is true that
the birthrate is dropping slowly year by
year (10 percent since 1958), but family
planning, now being pushed by the Gov-
eminent, got off the ground too late
to affect unemployment during the next
crucial years.


w^
TRUCKS
TRAXCAVATORS
COMPRESSORS
wm
m
i'.V.':
g§
\
EXCAVATORS
CRANES
IP BRAMBItS
EXPERIENCED OPERATORS
Hire al| the equipment and the
operators in one package
GO ONE-STOP-SHOPPING
AT BRAMBLES
CIVIL CONTRACTING
DIVISION
Rock Excavations • Earthmoving • Reclamations
• De-watering • Plant hire
CRANE HIRE DIVISION
Crane hire • Concrete pouring • Steel erection
• Machinery moving • Heavy and high lifts
TIPPER TRUCK DIVISION
Hourly hire or contract work • Suppliers of sand,
ashes, metal, gravel and filling
BIS.B
BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CNR. TODMAN AVE. & DOWLING ST„ WATERLOO. 663 0465
Singapore ministers do not hide their
anxiety that unemployment may really
get out or hand. ihe solutions they
seek he in new opportunities tor emigra-
tion, industrialisation, and trade expan-
sion. the great hope, tor example, is tor
a goodly how of young Singaporeans to
Australia, following the removal of
barriers to Asian immigration there by
Mr. Holt’s Government.
On the other hand, it is hoped that
America, in particular, will provide Singa-
pore with special trade considerations and
quotas to help stimulate commerce and
the establishment of new industry on the
island. It is admitted in Singapore’s
Ministry of Labor that it will take a great
deal of new industry to absorb a sizable
number of the unemployed. And there
has been little headway so far in the
search for new markets for Singapore’s
manufactured goods.
Singapore’s obvious trading partner,
Malaysia, is at present for reasons akin to
those that led to Singapore’s expulsion
from the Federation (racial, political, per-
sonal animosities) obstinately stalling on
Singapore’s request for talks on economic
relations and a common market.
_ Hence Singapore’s efforts to interest
the great Powers. As for America, it is
believed here that American suspicion of
Mr. Lee as a declared Socialist —and a
Chinese one at that has induced a
reluctance to give Singapore any special
favors.
There is also the fact that Singapore
has a limited trade with Communist China.
Singapore merchants want it. This
is for purely personal, capitalist reasons.
With things tight as they are, this desire
for business, if balked outright, might
provide extremist politicians here with
recruits for an attack on the “hypocrisy”
of Lee’s professed neutralist, but in fact
Western-orientated, stance.
Today, it happens that the extremists
are in disarray. The Communist-line
Barisan Socialist Party—Mr. Lee’s most
formidable political opposition—has split
on a major disagreement on tactics—
along the lines of the Sino-Soviet conflict
-—and has suffered some defections. Its
criticism of the continuing British base
on the island has cut no electoral ice
for the simple reason that the base provides
not only 50,000 jobs, but puts money into
the pockets of shopkeepers, domestic
servants in service households, and Singa-
porean landlords.
Nevertheless, the problem of thousands
of ambitious young Singaporeans on the
loose without work, leave alone oppor-
tunity, is just the kind of issue calculated
to revive Communist hearts.
Moderate Singaporeans are asking:
“Why is it that the West tends to offer
help only when one is seen to be in deep
trouble and it is almost, if not actually,
too late?” They believe it is their Chinese-
ness that inhibits their friends—and the
fear of Singapore as an awkardly Socialist
“third China.”
But the danger is that, if Singapore’s
problems are not coped with, this
strategically placed little island may even-
tually become net a third China but a
second Cuba.


Ik
You don’t have
to be a top wine
and food group
to hold
a function at
Chevron
But you’ll be treated like one
Chevron just can’t help it. Over the
years, it's been so used to hosting lead-
ing wine and food organisations, inter-
national gourmets and hoteliers, that
the expertise shows through. Chevron
caters for groups of 8 to 800, from as
little as $2.25 a head. Finest in foods,
wines and service. Don’t gamble on
the success of your functions. Hold
them at Chevron. Connoisseurs do!
Before arranging your next business or
social function call on the experience
of the banquet manager.
0
Chevron
Macleay St., Potts Pt., Sydney. Phone 35-0433
FOR PROMPT BOOKINGS—ADELAIDE: Hotel Australia, 6-8581 (Telex 82174); MELBOURNE:
Chevron 51-1281; BRISBANE: Hotel Carlton, 2-2941; SYDNEY. Chevron 35-0433 (Telex AA20489)
Washington Letter
Eros Denied
Again
From MURRAY KEMPTON
THE Supreme Court of the United
States has surprised us all by dis-
covering that there are limits to
what is permissible in the major national
industry of distributing pornography.
The most unfortunate tangible conse-
quence of this reminder is that Ralph
Ginzburg, publisher of “Eros,” the
Daimler of the industry, must go to prison
for five years. Ginzburg is not a uni-
versally admired figure. A friend of the
editors of the “New York Times,” who
telephoned them to encourage what he
assumed to be their outrage at this turn
of the screw, was chagrined to have one
of them answer that he found it impossible
to sympathise with a man like Ginzburg.
So we suffer again from the old Ameri-
can habit of demanding of the victim of
judicial indifference that he be, if not
indubitably innocent, at least conspicu-
ously respectable. Ginzburg is, of course,
no Wilkes, but then neither are the editors
of the “New York Times.” Americans
are in general unfamiliar with Burke’s
observation that, because men want some
virtues, it does not follow that they want
all. The real Ginzburg is a rather serious
and stuffy man. Who except serious and
stuffy men really believe that the sexual
impulse is a liberating one?
Then, the injustice which would have
been done him if he were the worst of
men was, as usual, precisely defined by
Mr. , Justice Hugo Black in his dissent
from the Supreme Court’s affirmation of
the sentence. Ginzburg, Justice Black
said, is “now finally and authoritatively
condemned to serve five years in prison
for distributing printed matter about sex
which neither he nor anyone else could
possibly have known to be criminal.”
For the mistake of not knowing he was
a criminal, Ginzburz could only blame the
Supreme Court. For five years now, the
Court, using Ginzburg among others as
its authority, has extended the permissible
limits of obscenity to a point where it was
impossible any longer to believe that they
existed under American law at all. Those
persons who think that society can be
redeemed by dirty books, or who think
that it can be destroyed by them, alike
assumed that nothing could legally be
regarded as unprintable.
Suddenly the Court has discovered a
limit: It is an exercise of free speech to
publish a dirty book but it can be a crime
to advertise and sell it as a dirty book.
This means that a business can be legal
if the businessman contents himself with a
modest living, and criminal if he sets out
to get rich on it. Ginzburg, then, goes to
prison as a Henry Ford manque. He has
the same fascination with sex that Ford
had for the internal combustion engine
and, like Ford, he set out to process his


One heater isn’t whole house heating.
But Gilbarco Ducted Heating is!
b
A
0
0
v°
0
S
*
0
w&
Ask an expert and he’ll tell you a heater in one location, no matter how good and how
expensive, won't warm a whole house. Warm air must be distributed through ducts,
individually into each room, for even house heating.
This is just what Gilbarco Central Heating does. And at a reasonable cost. It’s oil-fired
and thermostatically controlled for economy and gives you warmed filtered air distributed
through outlets into every room of your house. Jn summer it converts to assist ventilation
throughout the house.
If you've decided on whole-house heating, get it. Go to Gilbarcol
GILBERT & BARKER
Mfg. Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Huntley Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AT BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, TOWNSVILLE, NEWCASTLE,
HOBART, AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH
Please send me further information on Gilbarco Ducted Central Heating.
NAME
ADDRESS
GB:P3B9
obsession for mass distribution. The dif-
ference was that Ginzburg was more
snobbish about his corporate enterprise;
Henry Ford ciung to the Model T, while
Lrinzourg tried, with “Eros,” to leap at
once to the Lincoln Continental.
The twentieth century has always been
prone to leave the definition of sin to
secular courts. The difficulty is that, in
the courts, there seems no way to define
sin except in terms of crime and, there-
fore, punishment. Otherwise, it would be
impossible not to sympathise with Supreme
Court Justice Brennan’s assessment of the
true offence of commerce in pornography,
which really is in the advertisement rather
than the publication.
Ten years ago, Francis, Cardinal Spell-
man was widely derided by the enlightened
for having warned his congregation that
it would endanger their souls to attend a
performance of “Baby Doll” he had not
himself seen. The Cardinal, as critic if
not as censor, was on the highest ground.
The complaint that he had never seen
“Baby Doll” was entirely irrelevant, since
his objection was to the display of a
gigantic portrait of Miss Carroll Baker,
its leading lady, in her nightie on Times
Square. ~ But he could not avoid being
an agent in the creation of this atmosphere.
After he and its Press agents were finished,
“Baby Doll” could have been “Snow
White” and everyone who saw it had to
be convinced that he had been watching
a dirty movie.
Publish and Be Damned
JN purely personal terms, it is rather diffi-
cult not to miss that censorship which
was the order under which I grew up in
America. Evelyn Waugh said of the
“Index” that it does at least provide an
excuse for not reading Sartre; the old
customs ban was similarly useful. It
made it difficult to get hold of pornog-
raphy. Now, in my case at least, it rolls
in free from every publisher. When I find
it dull, I am disappointed; when I don’t,
I am ashamed of myself at my age. Even
so, not even the laziest man can expect
the Bill of Rights to be suspended just
for his convenience.
The Supreme Court can, with special
reason of course, be pained by the con-
spicuous evidence of a degraded public
taste in literature to whose ostentation
it has itself so mightily contributed. But
as no court should be asked to act on the
basis of private taste, no man should be
sent to prison as an example of bad taste.
Yet there was no way for the Supreme
Court, at this stage of our cultural history,
to suggest what ought to be limits to bad
taste except by sending someone to jail
for exceeding them. That being an out-
rageous reason for sending anyone to
prison, the Court seems to have consoled
itself by the thought that Ginzburg had
it coming to him. Justice Brennan’s de-
cision, therefore, came down rather exces-
sively on the notion that he is not the sort
of man you would wish to marry your
daughter. There is no evidence that this
is fair. Even if it were, the Court has
allowed Jean Genet, who ought not to be
forced to marry anyone’s daughter, to live
to publish and be ddmned.


FORUM
Too Many Prunes
The British View of Road Deaths
By JOHN DAVY
THE current post-Easter motoring post-
mortem is as predictable as the holi-
day deaths which will set it off. Some
will blame the roads; others will blame the
drivers; the idealists will call for drastic
action; the fatalists will say that it could
be worse—if accidents had increased as
fast as traffic, they would be double what
they actually are. Almost everybody will
be right. But very little will be actually
done (except by the undertakers).
There is still a great deal to be learned
about the sociology and psychology of
motoring. Nevertheless, a few simple facts
are clear. The simplest is that some
categories of people are far more dan-
gerous than others. These are (1) the
young, (2) motor-cyclists, (3) people who
drink before driving, (4) men as opposed
to women.
The most dangerous individual on the
road is a hard-drinking, 18-year-old, male
motor-cyclist. The safest is a middle-aged,
teetotal, female car-driver. Let us look
at these uncomfortable facts more closely.
It has been estimated that if all those
currently travelling on two wheels (includ-
ing bicycles and scooters) were transferred
to four wheels, total deaths and injuries
on the roads could drop by a third.
This assumes that motor-cyclists get hurt
because they are more vulnerable. But
there is also evidence that they are in-
herently more dangerous. Most motor-
cyclists are young and male.
The dashing. get-up-and-go people de-
picted in the motoring advertisements are
commonly in their twenties. All too often
their destination is the cemetery. Death
and serious injury on the roads soar from
the age of 15 on, each a peak between 19
and 24, drop quite sharply after 30. The
20- to 24-year-olds account for one-fifth
of all fatal and serious casualties to car
users, while drivers between 25 and 29
cause half as many accidents again as
those between 30 and 39.
Obviously, experience is a factor—but it
is not the whole story. In their first year
of driving experience, men in their forties
make insurance claims at little more than
half the rate of those in their late twenties.
Barbara Wootton once remarked that
“if men behaved like women, the courts
would be idle and the prisons empty.”
She might have added that the roads
would be considerably safer. Male drivers
probably outnumber female drivers by
about five to one, but they outnumber
female road offenders by about 20 to one.
For some reason, the official statistics do
not make sexual differentiations. But it
certainly looks as though the motoring
advertisements should put the blonde in
the driver’s seat, with the young man
next to her, preferably strapped in.
It is one thing to show that it is hazard-
ous to be a teenage motorist. It is an-
other thing to explain why. But interested
psychologists generally agree that the car
is tailor-made for venting aggressive and
competitive impulses. It is also, in its
more potent versions, eminently suitable for
sexual display. It seems unlikely to be
mere coincidence that the highest accident
figures occur during the male rutting sea-
son, when competition is at its height, not
only for the brightest birds, but for things
like jobs and social status. (The motor-
bicycle is also used as an instrument of
adolescent rebellion.)
The compulsive associations of motoring
with youth, power, and potency are under-
lined if one tries to imagine a reorientated
advertising campaign: “Cruise—the Family
Petrol for the Over Forties;” “Be Safe with
Plod—the Middle Aged Petrol.” In a
society chronically anxious about flagging
powers, you can sell Zing or Urge to any-
one, but no one will buy Plod.
Even elderly motoring might be safer
than youthful motoring. There is evidence
that the relative accident rate of the over
65s is about 10 percent higher than that
of the 46-65 age group—but the accident
rate of the under-30s is 60 percent higher.
The hazards of alcoholic motoring are
now well known. To be young and/or
drunk is clearly more dangerous than being
middle-aged and/or sober. But there is
some evidence of additional social and
psychological hazards.
Black Sheep
QiNE of the most suggestive studies was
conducted by W. A. Tillman and G. E.
Hobbs with a group of Canadian taxi-
drivers in London, Ontario. They com-
pared a “high accident” with a “low acci-
dent” group. They found definite corre-
lations between a history of repeated
accidents and the following factors: par-
ents divorced; excessive parental strictness;
childhood phobias; childhood aggression
(this showed the highest correlation of
all); truancy from school; frequent
absence without leave in the services;
admitted sexual promiscuity; consciousness
of physique.
In a follow-up, Tillman and Hobbs
found that 34 percent of the accident
repeaters had been before an adult court,
compared with only nine percent of an
accident-free group. Fourteen percent of
the accident repeaters, but none of the
accident-free group, were known to
venereal disease clinics. In all, 66 percent
of the repeaters were known to one or
more public agencies, compared with only
nine percent of the accident-free.
A study which points in a similar direc-
tion was published recently by Dr. Terence
Willett, of Reading University. He studied
653 individuals in one police district of
Southern England who had committed
serious road offences. He found that this
group contained a remarkable proportion
of individuals with criminal records, with
bad motoring records, or both. The group
with criminal records (151 individuals)
was responsible for a total of 549 motor-
ing and over 600 non-motoring offences.
All this is clear evidence that there are
black sheep on the roads. Can we identifv
them in advance? In America, several
trucking companies claim to have reduced
accident rates by applying various psycho-
logical and other tests to job applicants.
A psychologist in South Africa is claiming
dramatic results from a “Thermatic
Apperception Test” for selecting African
bus-drivers. Applicants are shown cards
with pictures and asked to write brief
stories about them, thus revealing, it is
claimed, attitudes or personality traits
likely to lead to a bad accident record.
But while such methods may be useful
for selecting professional drivers, no
private individual is going to stand for a
psychologist telling him in advance that
he is not fit to be let out on the roads.
In a car-borne society, only gross mental
or physical deficiencies can bar a driver
in advance.
However, if instructors could learn to
recognise “driving types” who were likely
to be accident-prone, they could be
referred for special training or tests, and
perhaps made tactfully aware of the per-
sonal driving problems they might
encounter.
Something similar could develop from
a “penalty points” system, as is already
used in parts of America and Canada. In
New York State you get three penalty
points for speeding or reckless driving,
two for crossing a white line, etc. If you
accumulate six points in two years you
get a warning letter. Eight points bring
a court hearing and possible suspension
of licence.
The only way we shall be able to come
safely to terms with modern traffic condi-
tions will be to acquire a universal habit
of middle-aged motoring. The roads are
not suitable for competition, self-assertion,
or displaying to blondes. Their job is to
lead from A to B, and it must be no
reflection on manliness or sexual vigor to
fill your tank with Plod.
Dr. Willett has argued that we might
find some assistance in the war-time saga
of Pilot-Officer Prune. The RAF, deeply
alarmed at the upside-down-in-cloud
school of flying, introduced Prune as the
epitome of the airborne clot. Vain, exhi-
bitionist, and thoroughly dangerous, his
cartoon adventures were coupled with an
intensive indoctrination effort to produce
responsible behaviour.
This now imbues the training of modern
aircrews, who combine maximum skill and
alertness with minimum display and
drama. A Boeing shuttling back and forth
across the Atlantic is middle-aged flying
par excellence. The captain does not have
to demonstrate masculinity by looping the
loop.
On the roads, we want Boeing-style car-
crews, dull and middle-aged maybe, but
competent, responsible, and much, much
safer.
(From “The Observer,” London.)


' -s
m
:V'
'.'i i!
SB
Jnk
,
There is
nothing
stronger
than
STEEL


m
9*
:
;
Look who's put in
Penci/ine Partitioning.
E.S.&A. Bank has.
(In Australia's first ladies' banking suite.)
English Electric has.
These famous companies, and their architects,
weighed up the advantages of new Lysaght
Penciline internal partitioning. And they liked
what they saw. Penciline is a fresh concept in
partitioning (free standing, floor to ceiling, or rail
height). Damage-resistant Lysaght Marviplate
panels on a rigid galvanized steel framework.
Fully demountable and re-usable. All services
carried through steel studs. It has the highest
soundproofing qualities of any demountable
system. Termite proof, rodent proof and fire
resistant. Scuff, scratch and stain resistant. And
speedily erected. 15-20 sq. ft. per man hour is
easily achieved. We’d be glad to show you
the facts and figures on Penciline. Facts and
figures that will prove it the perfect choice for
your office, shop or factory partitioning.
Just contact John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTOR-ERECTORS
N.S.W.
Associated Insulation Pty. Ltd. 929-9700.
Frank G. O’Brien Limited. 69-0466.
Co-ordinated Design & Supply Pty. Ltd. 42-6420.
Pavey, Young & Mathews Pty. Ltd., Newcastle.
57-3943.
VICTORIA
A. J. Brooks (Vic.) Pty. Ltd. 46-4924.
David H. Bill & Associates. 86-5071.
British United Shoe Machinery Co. 41-2157.
Picton Hopkins & Son Pty. Ltd. 42-3541.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Sigal Industries Pty. Ltd. 45-4148, 45-5757.
Bissland Partitions Pty. Ltd. 45-3656.
Parsons & Robertson Pty. Ltd. 45-2171.
QUEENSLAND
Northstate Engineering Pty. Ltd. 79-1031.
Robb & Brown. 4-4421.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Jason Industries Limited. 6-2061.
Lysaght
Penoilina


LETTERS
Science reporting
Sir,
I found the reporting of the CSIRO
seminar on science journalism (8., April
2, p. 14) both interesting and well pre-
sented. Two particular inaccuracies, how-
ever, illustrate well a point I made at the
seminar. I said that the embarrassment
of scientists when emphasis is wrongly
placed, when reservations are omitted,
when titles are over-dramatic, is mainly
“because of what their scientific peers may
think, and I believe both they and their
peers may be wrong in this. They have
to learn not to apply to Press articles the
same critical standards they apply to a
scientific paper —there are real critical
standards for Press articles, but they are
different ones.” This is rather different
from your report, which reads: “Their
(scientists’) embarrassment was unjustified
because in fact their peers did not judge
Press reports by the standards they applied
to appraisal of a learned paper.”
Now,* although I know it is wrong of
me, I myself feel embarrassed by another
passage in your report: “The written
papers on the synthesis of chlorophyll, for
instance, are more voluminous than the
whole of classical Latin literature ...”
What I said in fact was that Woodward’s
recent total synthesis of chlorophyll was a
piece of organic chemical work which to
an organic chemist was quite moving for
its elegance. I went on to say that it
“rests on a background of intense work of
hundreds of chemists, of perhaps a couple
of thousand research papers in the field of
pyrrole pigment chemistry alone; a back-
ground literature in just this one region
of chemistry comparable in quantity to
the whole of the extant classical litera-
ture.” There is surely an obvious differ-
ence between this statement and “the
written papers on the synthesis of
chlorophyll!”
I just hope that your reporter is right,
«and that my scientific colleagues will not
be too hard on me over this. For myself,
I am still willing to take the rough with
the smooth, as I advocated in my talk.
I shall be more than happy if in the future
I have as few rough places to complain
about as on this occasion.
JOHN FALK
Division of Plant Industry,
CSIRO, Canberra (A.C.T.)
Treasury Fallacies
Sir,
There is a fallacy that Mr. Peter Kelly
(and presumably his masters at the
Treasury) has fallen into in his letter
(8., April 9) about aluminium-alumina-
bauxite exports. It is that the gap be-
tween forecast local aluminium production
capacity and projected local consumption
automatically represents an exportable
surplus.
The home demand for primary
aluminium in 1970 is likely to be 110,000
tons and it is true that a possible capacity
of 140,000 tons has been announced. This
was neither stated nor, indeed, denied in
my article. The question, however, is
how much of this can be exported. No
factory, least of all an aluminium smelter,
can work at full capacity all the time.
Secondly: How much of this possible
surplus will Australia be able to sell at
prices covering Australian cost of produc-
tion which is—admitted by all —appreci-
ably higher than world market prices?
A slight shortage of world smelting
capacity in the ’sixties will have turned
into a sizable surplus by 1970.
Contrary to Mr. Kelly’s assumption,
my article did not accuse the Treasury of
being dogmatic, nor did I intend to be
unequivocal myself. I only tried to
temper over-rose-colored views, but I join
Mr. Kelly in hoping that an optimistic
assessment would turn into hard cash.
JOHN G. HARDY
Sydney (N.S.W,).
Castaways
Sir,
Several hundred people would disagree
with one aspect of Mr. Charles Higham’s
article on Folk (8., April 16) as water
dribbling down a drain. Also The Casta-
ways coffee lounge, to accommodate
the large number of people still interested
in hearing top-class folksingers, has NOT
closed but has moved to larger premises
at 198 Pacific Highway, Crows Nest, where
last Sunday Alex Hood and Larry King
sang to a packed house.
RON HENDERSON
Sydney (N.S.W.).
MELBOURNE LIFE
the Bulletin
85 Years Ago: April 24, 1880.
MELBOURNE correspondent writes
thus: The deplorable existence of
dipsomania among the wives of the
Upper Ten in Melbourne arises, in my
opinion, from two causes. The first is
the way in which wine is always on the
table when visitors call. Balls are the
second cause. Another cause which
sends the wives of wealthy men into
the arms of this fatal vice is that they
do not rise in the world with their lords.
Years ago the pair were married in an-
other state of society, and then they
were suited to each other, both of humble
rank. But the man has risen and become
a magnate and as he moves in the
world he must indeed be a dolt if he
does not rise to its level. The wife
remains where she was thirty years be-
fore. Her children go into society, the
mother never. These poor neglected
ones too often seek the consolation in
the bottle, and sometimes their in-
human husbands encourage them. One
monster, finding the wife of his youth
showed a fondness for drink, shut her
up in the house and gave her the run
of a splendidly stocked cellar. In
twelve months she was dead, and in a
few months afterwards he married a
Collins-street belle.
rp'HE police state that they have positive
information regarding the where-
abouts of the Kelly gang.
Rip Van Colder
Sir,
In Man on the Land (8., March 26)
roving journalist Cliff Calder, back from
nearly a year in Central Queensland,
attacked the campaign for Northern de-
velopment and the role of the People
the North Committee.
To take Cliff Calder up on only the
more glaring absurdities in Ijis mish-mash
of misconceptions, misinterpretation, and
misinformation on Northern development:
• It can hardly be said that “now it is
all coming out —the North is not being
neglected.” During the past 15 years the
total of Federal funds allocated to Queens-
land and W.A. for Northern projects was
a mere $96 million—of which all but S3B
million were loans repayable with interest.
In the last Federal Budget there was
only one new item for the North: a loan
of $3.2 million for Weipa.
Tot up the same sums in the South (not
forgetting items like Canberra, the lake,
unnecessary skyscrapers, and that Opera
House, which add to the gaiety of the
nation, if not its development) and the
North’s share of current capital expendi-
ture begins to look pretty meagre.
• Neglect is not too strong a word when
you consider that by comparison with the
South the North, for all its handicaps, is
more than paying its way. Take export
earnings: for years Queensland has aver-
aged a surplus of exports over imports of
$260 million- annually—while N.S.W. and
Victoria have had an annual deficit of
$420 million.
• North Queensland’s per capita output
in 1963-64 was $1296 to South Queens-
land’s $596.
• In the past 15 years the Central and
North Queensland Railways have oper-
ated at a profit of SSO million, while
the South Queensland and Metropolitan
Railways made a loss of $74 million.
Which means simply that North
Queenslanders are subsidising South
Queensland railway users. At the same
time the North is hit by heavy road taxes
levied on commodities transported by
road to force them to use the rail-
ways.
• The freight system is so crazy that in
some places it is cheaper to rail goods
to the next town, then road-haul them
back than to take them straight off the
train. Also, a factor in the high prices
which Mr. Calder seems to think
Northerners deserve because they pay
what merchants charge (I don’t follow
him there), is that sales tax of 12J per-
cent is levied on top of freight. This
blatant iniquity and the many anomalies
of the freight system which burden the
North were pointed out to the Loder
Committee on Transport Costs, whose re-
port has been under wraps in Canberra


for eight months or more; it must be even
more embarrassing than the Vernon Re-
port.
• The discrimination continues. For
example, the new Army base gave the
State Government a great chance to help
the North, but what happened? A special
freight rate was struck, enabling Southern
suppliers to undercut Townsville firms.
When this sort of thing goes on it is not
only Northern rural folk, as in Dawson,
who begin to doubt Government sincerity
on Northern development.
• The beef roads scheme is “so far
developed” that contractors have been
pulling men and plant out of the area
with their road unfinished because
Federal funds ran out.
• The overall pattern of growth of North
Queensland is quite different from that of
the few parts which Mr. Calder singles
out. As the Queensland Government’s
own Primary Industries Department re-
ported last month, the rate of population
growth for tropical Queensland has been
“considerably below” the rates for Queens-
land and Australia as a whole since
World War 11.
• Calder’s claim that the Queensland
Government has been “systematically
gauging the rivers of Queensland for years
and knows the water resources” is ludicrous.
As recently as 1964 there were only 220
stream gauges in use in North Queens-
land 220, as against the many thousands
that must come into use before the water
resources of North Queensland can be
adequately assessed. Only 14 percent of
the Gulf of Carpentaria area is gauged.
The actual water resources of the North
can only be guessed at. All that is known
for certain is that on this driest of con-
tinents nearly all the water is where nearly
all the people ain’t in the North.
® On the rest of Mr. Calder’s inspired
article, one can only say: Political power?
Who, us? Gee.
LARRY FOLEY
People the North Committee,
Townsville (Qld.).
Jumping on the Farmer
Sir,
In reading your Man on the Land
article in the April 2 issue, I see Mr. Phil
Meehan hasn’t made one important point
clear to those who are insidiously trying
to white-ant the Wheat Industry Stabilisa-
tion Scheme. I have yet to read where the
wheatfarmer is given credit for subsidising
the general public with cheap flour, bread,
etc., to the extent of approximately
£100,000,000. This took place between
the years 1947-1955, when wheat was being
sold overseas at prices up to 22/- per
bushel, the home competition price was
about 8/- per bushel. The taxpayer you
are so concerned about has not returned
his quota by far, as I see it; money
Y? ues have depreciated considerably, too.
No mention is made of the fact that the
average freight charge is 2/- per bushel,
w hich is approximately 20 percent of gross
amount in the grower’s hand. How the
railway system would face up to depletion
of this source of income is not hard to
imagine. Note also this money is deducted
from the initial payment; the grower gets
the remainder of his money in dribs and
drabs over, in most cases, years.
Michael Baume raised some good points.
His claim that the taxation system and
subsidies deprive us of investment capital
is interesting. I agree that too much
marginal activity is supported. Look at
the National Health Scheme, and see
how much that costs the taxpayer to
keep a few doctors and chemists in the
lap of luxury.
It is amazing how the community jumps
on a farmer. When the Wool Boom was
on the woolgrowers freed themselves of
debt and caught up to their suburban
counterparts in standard of living, the
Arbitration Commission decided to have
a prosperity loading of £1 per week.
Prosperity of that type passed for the
woolgrower but the £1 stayed with the
general public. Fortunately from a
national point of view prosperity has come
to other sections of the industry, all
primary oddly: meat, iron ore, coal,
copper, aluminium, beach sands.
J. H. WILSON
Junee Reefs (N.S.W.).
Women’s International
Sir,
Frank Roberts’ television critique (8.,
April 2) of the “People” program in
which members and supporters of the
N.S.W. Branch of our organisation, the
Women’s International League for Peace
and Freedom, were interviewed, was
appreciated by us as a fair and objective
appraisal. However, the phrasing of the
sentence: “Their opinions seemed more
valid than Dr. Sukarno’s—that Asian
problems such as Vietnam should be left
to Asians, etc. ...” is slightly ambiguous.
It might lead readers to suppose that Dr.
Sukarno believed that Asian problems
should be left to Asians, and that we do
not, which would be a misleading over-
simplification of our aims, principles, and
policies.
Briefly, we believe in the abolition of
violent means of coercion for the settling
of all conflicts, and the substitution of
peaceful settlement. In particular we
try to support and strengthen the work of
the United Nations and its agencies, with
which we have Consultative Status B. We
advocate, for example, such methods as
giving 1 percent or more of the national
income to underdeveloped countries
through the U.N., voting for the inclusion
in U.N. of governments such as main-
land China’s, and implementing fully the
Declaration of Human Rights. We believe
we as women have a moral responsibility
to urge our Government to take these
courses of action, and we hope this will
help to solve some of the problems of
Asia and other continents. But we believe
that Asian political problems such as the
future of Vietnam should be left to Asians.
We want a return to the Geneva Agree-
ments of 1954, which would involve the
withdrawal of all foreign troops from
Vietnam.
In addition, may we ask you to make
a slight correction to your list of organisa-
tions active in opposing the Australian
Government’s Vietnam policy? You state
under “A Vietnam Protest Guide” that the
WILPF functions in Queensland, N.S.W.,
Victoria, and Tasmania. We would like to
point out that there are also branches in
W.A. and S.A. and a number of members
in Canberra.
(Mrs.) A. MICHAELIS
Hon. Sec., N.S.W. Branch,
Women’s International League for Peace
and Freedom.
Fluoridation
Sir,
The recent unfortunate death of three
racehorses, through accidental use of
sodium fluoride, illustrates why many
people feel concerned when it is proposed
to add sodium fluoride, or a similar toxic
fluoride compound, to our water supply.
A simple calculation shows that arti-
ficial fluoridation of Sydney’s water would
mean the addition every day of enough
sodium fluoride to kill 2000 horses.
Although we are not horses, and
although each person would be obliged to
drink only a tiny fraction of this fatal dose
daily, the long-term effects merit con-
sideration.
D. HEWITT
Hon. Secretary,
Anti-Fluoridation Association of N.S.W.,
Sydney South (N.S.W.).


A SHORT STORY BY JAMES MURRAY
Rafferty Resting
QUICK in his coffin, and lively, Raf-
ferty stood up to get off a shot at
the flies above his head. They died
like. The white ants next, eating every-
thing. He replaced the spraygun on the
air-mattress with which he had padded the
coffin, and picked up a can of beer. Drink-
ing it, coffin warm, he scratched himself
with the easy self-friendliness of a dog
and tilted his head right back to get the
last sucked drop. Above, resting on roof
girders, were other coffins, raw bottoms,
pencilled with noughts and crosses, con-
trasting with the varnish of pompous sides.
He dropped the empty beercan on to the
concrete floor, took his note from it, and
sang:
“Wrap me up in my stockwhip and
blanket,
And bury me deep down below,
Where the dingoes and crows can’t
molest me,
“Way down where the coolibahs grow.”
He laughed, the laugh as abrupt as a
trumpet, as lonely. Nine coffins in the
roof space and one cot on the floor of
the bachelor quarters, Georgina. Ten
coffins, three hundred people, 38,000
square miles: Leichhardt Shire, Queens-
land.
Resurrection-naked, he stepped out of
the coffin. He mixed himself a billycan
of milk, four heaped spoonfuls of powder
to a pint of refrigerated borewater, a
pinch of salt, specific against the vicious
borewater, hell’s sweat.
Drinking, he pulled on a pair of old
strides. Then he shaved in a mug of
water, drawn sun-steaming from the stand-
pipe outside the long oven shack, littered
with empty beercans, old clothes, butts,
crusts, a rifle, a hiccupping refrigerator,
a table, on it a lump of bread and a
bayonet, five iron beds, flies, flies. He
went outside to the shower and returned
to the shack to put on clean clothes,
underpants, a pair of drill shorts, a shirt,
sleeves ripped off at the shoulders, a pair
of rubber thongs, a sweat-dark hat. On
the shirt, a penguin motif. The tempera-
ture, 114 Fahrenheit, the sun’s rays tre-
panning drills, a hot wind whipping giant
tops of dust.
Habit took him to Georgina’s only
hotel. Nothing to drink. His share of the
200 dozen cans of beer gulped in a week
and the rum and the whisky and the
brandy, thirty-five pounds. With seven
pounds to Ben Riley for tucker, forty-two
pounds, his fortnightly wages from the
Leichhardt Shire Council. Received Fri-
day, spent by Sunday, and the best part
of two weeks to recover from shouting the
bar and a beer for my mate there and
another for his mate and a bottle of Marie
Claire for me.
He cut straight through the bar, giving
a jerked good-day to Verdun Joy, who
was comforting himself with a chartreuse
and soda and the Sunday rumor that 40
dozen bottles of beer were being brought
down from Bildownie, 200 miles to the
north. He crossed the track and ducked
under the rail near the monument, com-
memorating the crossing of the Simpson
Desert, the great blanket of sand on the
edge of which Georgina is a charred
match.
Three aboriginal kids came toward him
from the squatting, tin-and-sacking shan-
ties, in which they lived with their parents
and their parents’ parents and anyone else
who might want to camp with them. They
gave him good-day, the words getting lost
among their grinning, shy teeth. They sky-
larked about on an ancient spring-cart.
Their schoolteacher skittered about in his
VW. The plane must be about due. He
was beginning to make a thing of grab-
bing any Coca-Cola the aix craft carried.
And practising the fiddle.
Still, he was better than the bloke be-
fore him, playing tennis with himself,
serving a slow one, then leaping the net
trying to return the ball on the clay courts
by the Inland Mission hospital.
Who said? A quid he beats himself be-
fore he wins a game. Trouble was the
Department of Education seemed to get
only teetotal teachers for outback schools.
Who said? Jack Burgoyne, Down Below
now getting dried out. DTs like one thing.
A gin, sidelong her eyes, walked past
on cool, calfless legs. High bottom. Raf-
ferty smiled. Another worry for the
schoolie. The sound of the DA3’s engines
drowned the cicadas-rattling sun. The
plane circled, making sure the town was
still there before landing. Barkley strode
past the gin, patting her yes-yes, now-now
bottom as he crossed to the red-gibber
airstrip. When the plane landed he was by
the door, steadying the ladder. He stood
aside to allow a nuggety bloke to trot to
the little sentry-box, built over a pit, ex-
clamation mark on a promise of better
things.
The nuggety bloke was carrying a roll
of pale blue paper from which fluttered
a length like a paying-off pennant. It
had to be his first trip or he must be a
bog-fetishist. The hotel had had flush
lavatories for so long now that even the
boongs were beginning to puke in them.
Barkley was bowing, making a leg
like a courtier with designs on the Virgin
Queen, and, come to think of it, a cod-
piece would be a distinct improvement
on his overalls, opened down the front to
a depth that would have made even
Harry Belafonte blench. The stewardess
looked bewildered when Barkley grasped
her overnight bag. The engines cut out
and Rafferty heard Barkley complete his
devoirs:
“ Number One Truck Drivers,
Leichhardt Shire Council.”
He moved off to the hotel and the
girl followed, trying to get her bag.
Barkley had run out of speeches but he
was swinging the bag with rough
eloquence. As they passed, Barkley gave
Rafferty a triumphant good-day. The
girl looked at him out of scented eyes.
Rafferty watched her well-fleshed legs as
she teetered desperately along the track
just behind Barkley. Near the plane, the
schoolie was alternately sucking on a
bottle of Coca-Cola and gurgling: “Noth-
ing like it. Nothing like this stuff they
put on the planes. Nothing.” Young
enough, bottle-sucking, to be held over
someone’s shoulder and burped. The
policeman, in his function of postmaster,
was loading mail, parcels of bread,
sausages, magazines, a bag of onions, let-
ters, and a hatbox on to his Land Rover.
“One for you, mate,” said the plane’s
cargo-checker. He handed Rafferty a copy
of the Brisbane “Courier Mail.”
“Thanks, mate.” Rafferty tucked the
newspaper under his arm and walked off,
his path intersecting that of the nuggety
bloke with the roll of pale blue paper.
“Use this, mate. Softer than the goose’s
neck Rabelais 'recommended.” He held
out the roll of paper.
“She’s right. Plenty of that issue in the
new toilet block. I want to read this, not
use it.”
“And there I sat. Those flies. They
came out of the pit like six-inch mortars.”
He pointed to the sentry box.
“She’s a hard, cruel world,” said Raf-
ferty.
“Oath.”
Rafferty took the newspaper back to the
shack. He lay on one of the beds near
a window, reading through the paper
slowly. Her picture. Standing in skinny
self-assurance with a long, bearded dill.
“Decorative guest at the concert with
which the Victorian Symphony Orchestra
opened its Queensland tour on Thursday
was Mrs. Roma Rafferty. She is pictured
(left) with the composer Leonid Kou-
setsky.”
Sweet God in the billabong. Decorative
as an asp on a breast. And the composer
dill. Evens she was getting a solo per-


formance there. For sure. Yet she kept
chasing him for maintenance. Left was
good. Her moustache showed slightly. Why
hadn’t anyone thought of the propaganda
value of telling the little men from the
North about the sun-ripened hairiness of
Australian women? Worth two of these
pentropic divisions in their chamber-pot
helmets as a deterrent to invasion from
above, where they preferred their women
supple and sleek.
He crumpled the newspaper into a ball
and all in a controlled movement stood
up to drop-kick the paper ball through the
doorway. He wasn’t the first bloke to
drop-kick his way to bed with a woman.
A great effort. The kid, 11 now, 12 on
November 18. That made her 32. He lay
back on the bed, the creaking bed. The
coffin did not creak, did not whisper in
a panic. He should have killed them both.
Should’ve. Her face. The bloke’s. And the
boy coming up the stairs. It was in him
still. Sour. He lay still, quiet. When he
awoke, it was dark. He swung his legs
off the bed on to the floor and found his
thongs with his toes.
Vaguely, “away you rolling river, O
Shenandoah,” he could hear singing. The
emergency beer must have arrived from
Bildownie. He went outside and stretched
up. Another inch on his reach and he’d
be able to grab himself a handful of stars.
He took a drink from the canvas water-
bag hanging by the door. Two barbed-
wire fences before the hotel, the singing
louder, the notes as rusty and jagged as
the barbs on the fence.
jocks, the world’s worst exiles. A mob
of Micks could manage a certain charm.
A lonely dago could 6ven sing pleasantly
out of his crazy heart. But these two
Scotsmen, hating each other when sober,
singing now with pathetic tunelessness and
desperate intentness, one limping with the
words slightly ahead of the other, who
kept dropping the tune:
“Oh, ye’ll tak’ the high road,
An’ I’ll tak’ the low road,
An’ I’ll be in Scotland afore ye.”
Only niggers made more of their right
to sad songs than Jocks. Rafferty, just
outside the bar, heard Mclsaac, the tune-
carrier:
“If only’d brought ma pipes doun frae
Bildownie, Jock.”
Jack,” said Brown, the word-
carrier, as gravely as John Knox
announcing that transubstantiation was
false doctrine.
Not tonight. With grog on, the Jocks
were prisoners of their self-inflicted caric-
atures. Hollywood Indians. Chips Bloody
Rafferty. Sober, one was as generous as
rain; the other could talk with wit about
his landfalls before he became landlocked
in Georgina. Rafferty turned, careful not
to slap his thongs, into the breezeway be-
tween the kitchen and the hotel dining-
room. He was so intent on not attracting
the attention of the singers by banging
the spring-loaded screen door that he was
inside the room before he realised she was
there. She had changed from her white
uniform into a dress, darkly' patterned.
She looked up and more quickly down to
the magazine she was reading.
First thing in his head: “Where’s the
Number One Truck Driver?”
“Shooting. He’s taken the crew. They’ve
gone.”
“Roos? Spotlighting.”
She nodded.
He took an “Australasian Post” from
the bundle which had come on the plane.
He enjoyed reading Bill Wannan to see
how long it was before one of his bush
yarns got told in the bar as a my-bloody-
oath experience.
Her chair creaked; they looked up at
each other.
“Would you?”
“No.”
“Not even a hair of the dog that
obviously wouldn’t dare?”
“Thanks. Thanks. No.”
A sheila like this, propositions in the
air, propositions on the ground, she’d
got into the habit of saying no, chatter-
ing:
“Is it always like this? I mean this is
the first time, it’s the first time I’ve been
on this flight. Does it? Is it always so
quiet?”
“Quiet?” From the bar, a rhythmic
thumping and a chain of falsetto notes,
Mclsaac’s mouth-music for Brown, dancing
over swords made up of empty beercans.
“That makes it worse, like bubbas in
the dark.”
Her voice.
“Sydney?”
“No, Surfers Paradise. Originals. Not
bikini-come-latelies. You?”
“Here today, gone tomorrow. Well, a
place called Kyabram. Know it? In Vic-
toria.”
She shook her head, hair roan, shining.
“Small place. Pretty country. Dad was
the local mug-walloper.”
“You’re not?”
“Break it down. Work for the council
here.”
“Surveyor? Engineer? I know. Shire
Clerk.”
“Bottom of the class for you. I’m rear-
guard on the emu parade.”
“The what?”
“Oh, general rouseabout. What Jock
you can hear next door pretending to
be bagpipes calls the emu parade. Occa-
sionally we take a spin up and down the
track, picking up the empties. Emus. Get
the picture?”
“I thqught. Well, you don’t seem to
fit.”
“She’s right. Couldn’t be better—forty-
two notes a fortnight. Good camp. Good
tucker. No worries. No pain. It’s the
simple life everyone talks about and is
scared stiff of.”
“But don’t you find. Isn’t it—?”
“Lonely? I suppose it is. But take it
from me all this talk about filling the
empty North is bulldust. World’s got a
vested interest in keeping places like this
for blokes like me.”
The stamping and the wailing from
the bar increased.
“And what about those two? Can you
imagine them mowing the lawn. At the
Rotary? Last time it flooded down near
Maree, they had a sheep for dinner. Ran
it down! and butchered it. With a knife
and a hatchet.”
She screwed up her face, startled and
fascinated.
And Barkley. It used to be remittance
men in the old days. Now it’s maintenance
men, hiding out in the bush because they
don’t want to support their wives. Bark-
ley. Me. Hey, did you cop the bow? How
was he?”
She laughed. Her teeth white in her
mouth, her arms moving with the laughter.
And her breasts under the silk, dark stuff
of her dress.
You wait. When Barkley sets his mind
to a girl, he wastes no time. Kina: of the
lubras.”
“I know. Oh, I know.”
“Trouble?”
J)ON’T worry. I’ll be sleeping with my
light on all night. All night. Chief
stewardess’ advice. All right for sure.”
She giggled. He smiled.
“Name’s Rafferty. For God’s sake don’t
say Chips. Frank.”
“Mary Monteith.”
Above the rhythmic thumping and the
voice music there was a roar of laughter.
“Speak of the devil,” he said.
“But I don’t want to speak to him, not
if he’s Barkley. Bed for me.”
“With the light on.”
She got up and went to the door which
led to the sleeping quarters. She paused
by the door:
“The light on.”
He stared at her and she went out.
French-farcically, Barkley came through
the screen door opposite. He was still
wearing his overalls, but he was now
carrying a transistor radio. The screen
door banged behind him. The radio
blared.
“Where is she? Where’s the air hostess
sheila? Want to have a word with her.
Friendly, just a word. Thought she’d like
to listen to my radio. You know how it
is, mate.”
“Tell me. Tell me how it was with
that old gin last night. Old enough to be
your grandmother. How was it with her?”
Rafferty said.
Barkley swayed forward, the music in-
creasing:
“Been making a grab yourself, have
you? She’d like your coffin, she’d like that
for sure, mate.”
Rafferty got up, put the magazine along
with the others, and walked over to Bark-
ley, grinning just inside the doorway, the
light shining on his reddish pig’s-bristle
hair.
“You must be tired of playing the ram,
mate. Give yourself a rest. This girl’s not
another lubra. Leave her alone and let’s
have a drink,” Rafferty said.
“Alone. For you to creeping Jesus round
to her door. Lead kindly light. I heard
you. Yair, you crawling to her room
after all the work I’ve done on her. Not


likely, mate. And that’s bloody flat,” said
Barkley, swaying, too big for the door-
way.
The captain of the plane pushed against
the screen door and Barkley turned
slightly. Rafferty hit him on the belly
button. As Barkley turned, doubled for-
ward, Rafferty fisted him on the back of
the neck, driving Barkley’s face down and
feeling his teeth against his knee. He
punched him again on the back of the
neck. Barkley went down, sprawling, the
blare of his radio dying. He tried to get
up.
“Radio. What’ve you done to m’ radio.
You bastard, what’ve you done to it. I’ll
kill you.” He shook the radio at Rafferty
like a gimcrack fist.
He was getting up, shaking his head,
when Rafferty grabbed the radio and hit
him on the head with it. Twice. Barkley
groaned and went flat to the floor. Raf-
ferty dropped the radio beside him.
'J'HE captain of the plane, and the crew,
and the Jocks, and Ben Riley had
crowded into the room.
“He needed that. He needed it. But
you shouldn’t’ve,” said Riley.
“Would’ve killed him if I’d been wear-
ing the boots. Should’ve. Should’ve.
Should’ve put the boot in,” said Rafferty.
“Ach, thae Japanese riding boots.
They’re a’ right for the beach but ye
cannae dae much wi’ them,” said Brown,
indicating Rafferty’s thongs.
“Hand. Give me a hand,” Riley said,
bending over Barkley.
“We’ve a flight in the morning,” said
the captain. “Got to get some sleep.” He
turned.
“Bed,” he said to the crew. They left
the room together.
“Give me a hand,” Riley said to the
Jocks. “Give me a hand and you’re on
a couple of beers each.”
Mclsaac looked at Brown. Brown
shrugged: “A couple for Rafferty as well
an’ you’re on.”
“Fair enough. Just grab him. Just get
him out of here. You know what the
missus is like. If she sees him like this,
she’ll bar the lot of vou from the flamin’
pub.”
Mclsaac got Barkley by the shoulders
and Brown got hold of his feet. They
staggered outside. Riley followed with
the transistor, shaking it hopefully and
holding it to his ear.
Rafferty just stood for a moment. Crazy,
thinking about his wife and the bloke
when he king-hit Barkley, crazy king-
hitting one bloke for another bloke a
thousand miles and years away. Wrong
bloke. Wrong woman. Too late. He shook
his head and followed the others.
Outside, they propped Barkley with his
back against a galvanised rainwater tank.
Riley laid the radio on Barkley’s legs.
Barkley jerked his head backwards against
the tank.
“His heid’s emptier than the tank,” said
Brown.
“Aye, and I’m thinking that’s damn’
empty. The last good rain was five years
ago,” said Mclsaac.
“Shouldn’t we put him in his cot,”
said Riley.
“Which one? He hasn’t slept in the
quarters in a month of Sundays. The
man’s eyes are bigger than his cock. He’ll
be right here,” said Brown.
“Aye, he’ll be right. He’ll find a bed
an’ someone in it when he comes to,”
said Mclsaac, “Never seen his like for
fornication.”
“God, that was a beauty of a right.
Benny Lynch never moved one faster or
shorter,” Brown aid.
Barkley’s head banged against the rain-
water tank.
“Transistor,” he said, “transistor. Kill
you, Rafferty. Kill you for sure. The
sheila.”
Rafferty moved. Riley held his arm.
“Don’t put on a turn here. The kids
are sleeping out tonight. The wife’ll mur-
der me if they’re awake when she comes
back,” he said.
“Another couple of beers if you deal
with him,” he added to the Jocks, indi-
cating Rafferty with a jerk of his head.
Barkley heard and misunderstood. He
pushed himself upright. Back to the tank,
he rubbed his hands over his face. He
shook his head. He peered down on to the
ground and picked up his radio.
‘ First bloke comes near me,” he said.
“Leave him alone,” said Riley. “It’s
nearly twelve. You'll wake the flamin’
kids and you know what the missus is
like.”
Rafferty, the two Jocks, and Riley
stood in a curve facing Barkley, their faces
lit and shadowed by the stars and a rind
of light from the kitchen. Barkley’s head
banged against the tank:
“Kill you.” And he stumbled off into
the big night toward the bachelor quar-
ters, carrying his dumb radio.
The four men made no attempt to stop
him. When he was only a shadow, they
heard his voice again: “Kill you, Rafferty.
The sheila.”
Riley started toward the door. He
hesitated: “What d’yer reckon? The
sheila. Will she be all right? That room
at the end, the hostesses always have it.
Will she be all right?”
“Ach, let’s get some kip,” said Brown.
“Whit dae ye think he’s daein’.”
“ The door, the door to the bogs, from
her room, the door.”
“Ach, he’s a blether, a right blether.”
The word exploded in Rafferty’s
memory as he felt the bayonet leap in
his back again and again. He turned in
giant agony, moaning, remembering
wake-the-flamin’ kids, trying to reach the
bayonet, swinging Barkley with him on
the rifle. Over his shoulder, in the dawn-
mixed light from her room, a glimpse of
Barkley’s face, shapeless, terrified certain,
mad:
‘‘Knew you’d come. Been waitin’.”
His voice was as quiet and savage as
the bayonet when he jerked it out, whet-
stone sounding against a bone, and Raf-
ferty no longer supported by its pain
went down on hands and knees. He felt
the bayonet leap again in shoals of flying
agony. And lay dead still, waiting for the
bullet surely, his ear to the ground, cold,
the earth beating, dying with him, and
Barkley breathing all in a rattle, snuff-
ling:
“Been watchin’ you, you bastard.
Should’ve gone in, in, in.” Each in a stab,
skewering his thoughts.
“Couldn’t make your creeping Jesus
mind up, could you?”
And her voice through the glass-topped
door, not yet afraid, his death agony
-horseplay. Rafferty silent, never so alive
as dying, and Barkley still and the girl
tomboying:
“Break it down, fellas, a girl needs her
beauty sleep.”
Barkley put his weight against the door
and the coquetry. She screamed. And
Rafferty rose on wires of pain, stitched
in his back. On wires of pain, stronger
than the cords of blood which held him
to the ground, he reached Barkley, the
girl screaming. He locked his agony
around Barkley’s arms, the girl scream-
ing, and away in the distance voices.
Barkley, the strength of the agonv around
him, stood stock-still. Riley’s voice. And
his wife’s. And the captain’s. And Riley’s
again.
“Strewth, the blood.”
Barkley, alive, broke free and turned
and punched the rifle butt into Rafferty’s
face and ran through the door, the girl
screaming, the wires of pain snapping
and the cords of blood pulling Rafferty
down, down, down as the screaming rose
and broke in sobs.
£JHE was still sobbing, her face all sun-
dered with shock, when they carried
her aboard the plane which the captain
insisted should leave for Adelaide on
schedule at 10 a.m.
At sunset, acting on information re-
ceived, the policeman intercepted Barkley
running through the sandhills on the edge
of Georgina. He was carrying the rifle
at the trail, bayonet fixed. The police-
man called on him to stop but Barkley
kept dodging toward the Land Rover he
had hidden farther out. The policeman
got off four shots from his pistol. The
first went wide because he was breathless
from excitement and too much beer; the
second shot gouged sand at Barkley’s feet
and he dropped his rifle.
When he knelt to retrieve it, the police-
man put aside pretension and held his
revolver with both hands. The shot took


Friden
He has an electronic calculator
with a visible memory.
See the TV screen?
That’s where all his entries and
answers appear. They’re on a
restful, blue-green field. Four reg-
isters can be seen.
A fifth, unseen register can be
used for storing constant factors.
In fact, figures in all registers
are in memory. He can recall any
of them back to the working reg-
ister for further calculation. This
saves him an amazing amount of
time. And also eliminates any
chance of making an incorrect
re-entry.
He can work complex prob-
lems and never take his fingers
off the keyboard, except to write
the final answer.
This is the incomparably fast,
new 130 Electronic Calculator by
Friden.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
The 130 Electronic Calculator by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
254 ALBERT STREET, EAST MELBOURNE. 411133
Branches:
SYDNEY 92 5807 ADELAIDE 23 5998
CANBERRA 4 6162 PERTH 23 3224
BRISBANE 511571 HOBART 34 2673 435 A
Barkley in the left shoulder but he got
up and kept on running. He made it to
the vehicle and looked round in bewilder-
ment.
“The lubra’s not coming, mate. How
do you think I knew where you were?
How d’you think I got these?” The
policeman waved two spark-plugs from his
pocket. “I’ve got the rest. Give yourself
up.”
He completely misjudged his fourth
shot. He was aiming for Barkley’s legs,
but the sight of Barkley, big and black
in his overalls, coming at him out of
the sun, unnerved him. His fourth shot
took Barkley in the heart.
The Jocks had to bury the bodies.
Quickly, because of the heat, Riley sup-
plying grog from Rafferty’s tucker money.
“Why make a hard day’s work for this
bastard?” said Brown, “A’ve an idea.”
They used the council’s mechanical
posthole digger and buried Barkley up-
right.
“Head first for hell,” said Mclsaac. “A
very good idea of yours, that.” He handed
Brown a bottle of beer and a cup of
whisky.
But he argued bitterly when Brown,
the grave for Rafferty all dug with sweat
and shovel, suggested they leave the air-
mattress still in it, was the coffin.
“I’m thinking he won’t fit and it’s not
decent.” Mclsaacs finished shaving the
death-stubble from Rafferty’s face. The
body lay on a bed in the bachelor quarters.
Beside it on the floor, the air-mattress still
in it, was the coffin.
“Let’s gi’e it a try.”
Mclsaac shook his head doubtfully.
Brown took the shoulders and Mclsaac
the feet. They lifted Rafferty down off the
bed into the coffin. Brown got the lid
and Mclsaac went to the refrigerator to
get more beer.
“I’m thinking we should have stopped
Rafferty going out yesterday morning.”
He handed a bottle of beer, ready opened,
to Brown.
“How were we tae know Barkley’d gone
mad?” Brown took the beer. “Mad as a
snake. A full magazine on a .303 and never
fired a shot. There’s nae dealin’ wi’ that.”
He put the bottle of beer on the lid of
the coffin. “An’ there wis nae dealin’ wi’
Rafferty. You saw him yersel’.”
He began to screw down the coffin
lid, taking a sip of beer each time he
finished screwing a nail. As he finished
the last, he looked up triumphantly at
Mclsaac.
“There you are you bloody, big
choochter. He’ll rest easier wi’ that. Gi’es
a haun’ an’ we’ll lift him on the table.”
He drank some more beer.
Mclsaac took the foot of the coffin,
Brown the head. They crabbed toward the
table. With no more sound than tear-
ing paper, the bottom ripped out of the
coffin and the air-mattress and the corpse
fell on the floor.
“White ants, a’ this time. Wid ye credit
it?” Brown looked in fascination.
“My God,” said Mclsaac. “That air-
mattress. Didn’t I tell you? He’ll never
rest easy now.”


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Man of Many Talents
By JOHN CARGHER
BOBBIEEEE . . . Bobbieeee ...!!”
Who could forget Janet, the square,
sharp-nosed redhead who led the
screaming gallery of Robert Helpmann
fans at Sadler’s Wells during the ’thirties!
Helpmann had his following of swooning
females long before Frank Sinatra, Elvis
Presley, or The Beatles. Today, his
admirers have multiplied many times,
though their voices are less shrill.
My first recollection of Robert Help-
mann is of a slight figure in the corps de
ballet of “The Gods Go A-begging,”
somewhere around 1935. Dressed in plum-
colored silk as a baroque gentleman, he
immediately caught the eye and with his
partner automatically became the leading
couple, though the choreography gave
them steps no different from the others.
This ability to catch the eye was the
cornerstone of success for Helpmann. It is
the one thing which no school can teach.
Other great artists undoubtedly possess
this presence, but Robert Helpmann is
unique in that he used it to overcome
shortcomings which might have proved
fatal for a less determined man.
Robert Helpmann made his name
initially as a dancer, and no chronicle of
ballet should omit his name. Yet at no
time could his technique be described as
more than average. On purely technical
grounds he should have been relegated to
demi-caractere parts or the corps de ballet.
Yet he danced the great classical roles
wfith conviction and made his audiences
believe that he danced them well. Help-
mann never could manage a proper
pirouette, let alone a double tour en Fair
and his entrechat was little more than
a rubbing together of the legs. But the
man danced! His was the most musical
movement of the human body I can recall
in 30 years of ballet going. If the pirouette
was imperfect, it started on time, it ended
on time. There was no hesitation, no un-
certainty and the bodily and facial expres-
sion at its end said plainly: “Look! I’ve
done it faultlessly!” And we believed
him and were happy to believe him, for
in Helpmann the classical male dancer
became a character w'ho moved us
dramatically as well as aesthetically.
I think that the enormous boost given
to the then Vic-Wells Ballet by Help-
mann’s work in its ranks has been un-
justly neglected. The company, which was
to become the Sadler’s Wells and later
the Royal Ballet, had its fair share of
genius backstage in the ’thirties. But among
the dancers the departure of Markova
and Dolin left a gap filled only—and, oh,
so unobtrusively—by Helpmann. I well
remember Margot Fonteyn’s first Giselle.
It was sensationally successful, but how
much of her success was due to the sup-
port the inexperienced teenager received
from Helpmann’s Albrecht? In fact, have
we not forgotten that for many seasons,
well into the war years, it was the team
of Bobbie and Margot, not Margot and
Bobbie, which led the company, and I am
sure Margot Fonteyn would be the first
to acknowledge her debt to Robert Help-
mann during those years.
But the company itself stood equally
deeply in his debt. All the great successes
of the period were built around the
astounding versatility of the young Aus-
tralian. “The Rake’s Progress” was Help-
mann. “Job” was Helpmann. “The
Haunted Ballroom” was Helpmann.
“Apparitions” was Helpmann. Even
“Checkmate,” in which Helpmann played
almost a non-dancing part, revolved
around his characterisation of the Red
King, while ballets like “A Wedding
Bouquet” would have suffered severely by
the absence of his impish sense of the
ridiculous.
Even as success was heaped on suc-
cess, Helpmann’s restless mind sought new
fields to conquer. The man who succeeded
in ballet without a technique wanted to
succeed as an actor without a voice! I
don’t think Robert Helpmann had any
delusions about the vocal cords with
which nature has endowed him. But he
set to work with intelligence and determin-
ation to overcome his handicap. His first
acting success was, perhaps, a little too
obvious. Oberon in “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” needs a visual presence as much
as a good speaker, and what actor could
possibly beat the head start Helpmann had
in that department?
And all the time Helpmann was de-
veloping steadily as a choreographer. Good
choreographers are few and far between,
for to scuplt out of living flesh while
bound by strict timetables of production
is no easy thing. In his early efforts Help-
mann mainly tried to be “different.” “Ham-
let” is the only ballet surviving from this
period. The choreographer was studying
the play at length at the time and he
succeeded surprisingly well in increating
a surrealist pastiche of the characters. The
ballet’s only failing is that a pre-knowledge
of Shakespeare’s masterpiece is essential
to its complete understanding.
Amusing as his re-creation of bird move-
ment was in “The Birds” (foreshadowing
his “Display”?), the ballet did not have
enough substance. “Comus,” on the other
hand, was a pretentious attempt to mix
word and dance. Helpmann’s sudden break-
ing into Milton’s verse was revolutionary,
but abortively so. Replacing choreographic
inventiveness with words was not the
answer and Helpmann was not slow to
realise this.
During the war, the actor in Robert
Helpmann felt ready for bigger things and
London saw his Hamlet. I doubt whether
any other ballet dancer, past, present, or
future, would attempt to play the gloomy
Dane, and arguments about Helpmann’s
interpretation have not been settled to this
day. I think most adverse opinions are
founded in prejudice created by Hamlet’s
appearance in black silk tights and, to
a lesser degree, the scaling down in sten-
torian tones. This Hamlet was meticu-
lously thought out, a continuous character
who made Shakespeare’s lines sound almost
modern. I have seen many great Hamlets,
including Gielgud and Olivier, supposedly
the best of our day, but I have never felt
the logic of Shakespeare’s dramatic pro-
gression as clearly stated as it was by
Helpmann. His Hamlet was different, ad-
mittedly! But it was not inferior.
Since then Helpmann has appeared on
stage and in films in almost every kind
of challenge in trying the most unlikely
characters. Astonishingly, he succeeds,
often completely, and usually to a great
extent. His failures are few and far be-
tween; the only one which springs
readily to mind is his Petruchio which
could be excused as a bad piece of mis-
casting, but for the fact that the casting
director was Robert Helpmann himself.
But when one counts his successes in
plays as varied as “The White Devil” or
“Nude With Violin,” the rare failures
(never unqualified) prove only that the
man is not infallible.
I think it is true that conceit is not
compatible with a sense of humor. On
that basis Robert Helpmann must be the
most unconceited artist in the theatre to-
day. He laughs readily. A ribald note
creeps into his humor at times, but this
is not unusual among artists. Practical
jokes are, however, frowned on by some
people and when on one memorable occa-
sion Helpmann, still dressed as Dr. Cop-
pelius, suddenly joined the corps de ballet
in the finale of Coppelia, the sight of that
decrepit old man correctly executing the
steps w ith the girls of the ensemble In ought
down the house—and Ninette de Valois’
wrath.
The personal character of Robert Help-
mann must have played a large part in
his success in so many spheres. Of course
he is capable of throwing tremendous
temperaments at times, though they appear
(conveniently?) more often when directing
than when being directed. The fact re-
mains that Helpmann is humble in dealing
with his co-workers and—less usual in his
profession—with the public. I have seen
him in earnest conversation with a ragged
old patron of the gallery who addressed
him affectionately as “Bobbie,” while
other artists were firmly insisting that they
be addressed as Mr. or Miss while handing
out autographs. Helpmann will listen to
the opinion of anyone and he will warmly
greet by name people he has met but
once many years before.
There is little new that a man of so
many talents can look forward to at his
age, but he seems to be more energetic
than ever. I should like to see him do a
strong comedy role on screen. With his
pantomimic ability he could out-Chaplin
any of today’s comedians. Instead, he’ll
probably end up by doing King Lear some-
where or the other.


THEATRE
Tragedy, Melbourne-style
Michael Duffield as
the wrestler
Papadapoulos
Rosalind Seagrave as Maria
THE YOUNG WIFE, by David Martin.
Producer Tohn Sumner Sr
The«re Melbourne
TYAVID MARTIN adapted “The Youne
U^ AIIN aaa P tea ine roung
Wife from his novel at the request of
J.C.W.’s John McCallum, and the new
form seems more qnnrnnriate to Its eon
iorm seems more appropriate to its con-
tent. Set in Melbourne’s 60,000-strong
Greek community the play alludes to
genTtor ’ was rts pro-
T , ' A , . v .
The Moor is } Yanms, a middle-aged
bear of a man, once a greengrocer and
now the manager of a Greek club. While
his heroics are limited to squabbling on
occer committees, he combines traditional
Greek expansiveness with the necessary
classic jealousy. Desdemona is Anna, his
young translucent proxy-bride, newly
arrived from Greece. Griton, a painter
toroS! rt a experi^ nc , e f a , y° uthf V ]
E St i 1S CasSl °/ And , Ia §° s role 18
Ne a nl b tfi f riumber of characters a
hihl U l IZ wrestler, Yannis blind,
hrntfi aG Ai m ’ and SS S tly Shady
e 1 ’ exis>
The Young Wife’’ has the traditional
structure of tragedy, but having been
written by a happy man it is leavened
with humor. The naturalistic comedy that
runs right through the play is neither dis-
trading nor destructive, for while it un-
j mji r* A. i . ur 7
doubtedly soitens *' dral f atlC “ ows ' 11
te S t >P I °l ll ccommg pre-
tentious. I can t see an Australian audience
accepting a tragedv least of all a home-
drown one—presented in bleak black and
u'e 1 j- ° , j anc 7
whites. Our audiences are too relaxed and
buoyant to believe in the inevitability of
uncompromising doom. In fact, they seem
to demand laughter chasers with their
dramatic spirits, as evidenced by their
instant response to The One Day of the
Year, and The Doll. So it is appro-
priate that unlike Desdemona, Anna sur-
vives and her warmth and innocence
endure. Instead of Othello s closing notes
of marmoreal coldness, “The Young Wife”
finishes with a poignant optimism.
The repertory theatre offers some of the
efficiencies of the production line, con-
.fused by ; he problems of turning out a
famil y A sedan one w , eek > a dirigible the
next. Actors need to be more than usually
schizophrenic in that they must simul-
taneo“s ly f° r § et one production, play a
second, and leheaise a third.
And the system inevitably favors these
established plays, which have been widely
discussed. Photographs of overseas or
interstate sets and costumes (and in the
recent example of “War and Peace,” a
virtually definitive TV production) give a
producer a flying start.
Another repertory negative is that even
the most versatile contract player must,
from time to time, become a square peg
cast in a round hole. Which is the case
in a number of cases in “The Young
Wife.” Yet despite the speed with which
this first production has had to be
mounted, and the physical inappropriate-
ness of many key players, the result is
remarkably satisfying. Brian James man-
ages to make his Yannis thoroughly con-
vincing, Dennis Miller, proud, tense, and
plausible as Criton, and even middle-aged
Michael Duffield persuades us that he
might just conceivably be a Greek
wrestler. Jan Leeming, as Anna, and
Edward Hepple, as Alexis, enjoy the
advantages of suitable casting and turn in
meticulous performances. Only Rosalind
Seagrave fails utterly, but nobody in their
right mind could have expected a young
girl to play Yannis’ thundercloud of a
mother.
The script calls for five rooms, which
Richard Prins has tried valiantly, but un-
successfully, to accommodate on the small-
ish stage. Maria’s room, which should be
seen above the main set throughout the
proceedings, has had to be eliminated, and
so her presence is not sufficiently brooding.
But all these inadequacies could be cor-
rected in the J.C.W. production the play
deserves.
PHILLIP ADAMS


Music at Mittagong
By PAUL FROLICH
WHILE Sydney has been engaged in
wordy controversies about the Opera
House its design cost and likely acous-
tics the indomitable women who have
guided several generations of girls at
Frensham School quietly got on with the
job of building an exemplary concert hall
and theatre
Musica Viva’s annual Easter Festival
at Mittagong, N.S.W., was centred in this
remarkable ' building*. Attractively de-
signed proof that mellow bricks and
pleasant timber can still do almost any-
thing an architect could ask for this
hall provides comfortable seating for al-
most 800 listeners and has a stage large
enough to fit the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. Its cost of almost a quarter-
million dollars was covered by private
gifts, raised without public appeal or wide
publicity; the hall is air-conditioned, has
first-rate stage equipment and lighting,
a good appearance inside and out, and—
greatest surprise of all—decent acoustics.
This is so fine a building that it alone
would justify a pilgrimage to Mittagong.
It is a centre which will, as does “Sturt,”
serve the people of the Berrima district
as much as it will benefit the school;
its availability contributed much to the
festive atmosphere and high standard of
the Festival. “Festival,” however ill-
defined the term, is certainly too restric-
tive a name for what happens at Frensham
each Easter. It has some of the attributes
of a Music Camp or a Summer School
and might best be described as a musical
and social beanfeast for all involved in
it.
Buildings, landscape, music, and people
combine to create something that is unique
i n our cultural life. Mainly, this is due
to PEOPLE. Their ages range from six
to 80, with the majority between 19 and
30; they are tireless in their eagerness
for mus i c > talk, and exchange of ideas.
The gathering is multilingual; many of
the young devotees have brought their
parents, heard happily shouting at each
other in Flungarian, German, and French.
A few more energetic people are seen
on solitary walks along the slopes of
Mount Gibraltar; most of them con-
gregate in groups, forming impromptu de-
bating or chamber ensembles; they sit on
the grass in earnest discussion or around
a log fire, singing madrigals and bush
ballads.
The most important people are, of
course, the professional musicians. The
Austral Quartet, N.S.W. Conservatorium
String Quartet, N.S.W. Wind Quintet,
Glickman Trio are eagerly listened to,
criticised, encouraged; their members are
bullied into coaching less proficient
amateurs and students. Once again, an
overseas ensemble touring for Musica
Viva was in residence the Kammer-
musiker from Switzerland. These Swiss
are more than just bilingual; Brenton
Langbein, one of the four violinists, was
raised in Australia; cellist Raffaele Altwegg
in England. Fiddler Angelo Maccabiani,
forbidding on stage, proved amusing in
private; Luise Schlatter, who looks just like
the Swiss women on the travel posters, en-
deared herself to all by impromptu mouth-
organ and violin offerings of Swiss folk-
dances on the sunny sloping lawns of the
school.
During the four days of the Festival,
performers of world standard share dor-
mitories and dinner tables with stumbling
students, with critics, composers, young
lovers, and those responsible for the
country’s musical life: the listeners. Often
inarticulate, the listeners are good com-
pany, provide the audience which every
artist needs, and they have their points...
For instance, encouraged by the Mittagong
climate of cold nights, however warm the
days, they give some fine displays of very
improbable fashions; also, they tend to ask
unconsciously embarrassing questions of
the professionals. They came to listen and
to learn; they did plenty of both,
The Mittagong Festival is so well
planned that there is always scope for
unplanned events as well and, although
there is no programmed central theme,
some main trends invariably emerge. This
year, the relentless battle between “new”
and established music was renewed. The
former was championed by critic Roger
Coveil and critic-composer Felix Werden
Werder contributed the only avant-garde
work to have its premiere at the Festival,
The traditionalists were led by that great
musician Robert Pikler; subsequently he
confounded the older listeners by a gentle
and illuminating introduction to the music
of Bartok and made, I think, a few con-
verts to modern, if not the most modern,
music.
Standards of performance were high
throughout. The finest, from memory,
were given by Melbourne’s Glickman


Trio in Hindemith’s Trio op. 34; the Con-
servatorium String Quartet in Bartok’s
No. 6; Harry Curby and Robert Pikler
in Martinu’s. Madrigals for violin and
viola; Miss Schlatter and Altwegg with a
Honegger Sonatine for violin and cello;
Charmian Gadd and Joyce Hutchinson in
Bartok’s Violin Sonata No. 2. Many other
performances were as good, if less memor-
able; certainly, no one will quickly forget
the playing of an ad-hoc orchestra
assembled on the final morning and hilari-
ously directed by “elected” conductors.
The whole of the Easter weekend was
an occasion for joyful music-making, the
making of friends, and delight in splendid
surroundings, heartening evidence of the
interest taken by our younger generations
in other than sporting achievements.
Workshop Session
Don Westlake
Clarinet
John Cran
Bassoon
Clubbe Hall
Neville Amadio
Flute
Patrick Brislan
French Horn


BALLET
A Very Meaty Sandwich
Robert Helpmann, joint artistic director of the Australian Ballet Company, at Baalbeck
during the company’s visit there.
AU t S J^ IAN , BALLET. I,, yr i a , Elektra,
Melbourne ; ““
' , ~ _ , , _
It seems very doubtful whether Orestes
used Lizzie Borden s method for dispatching
his mother, but it makes for good theatre:
and from the moment the curtain rose to
reveal Kathleen Gorham squatting like
a black spider in the centre of a strikingly
surrealist set, Robert Helpmann’s new
ballet, “Elektra,” proved to be good
theatre, indeed. It may not be Helpmann’s
best ballet, but it is certainly one of the
most effective, and set between slices of
light entertainment, as here, it makes a
very meaty sandwich.
~ . '
Unce again Helpmann has chosen an
allegorical presentation of a well-known
story and once again foreknowledge of
the subject is essential to its enjoyment;
I dread to think what a non-initiate would
make of the stage action. Fortunately,
characters and background are readily
ex P lai “ d ™ a few lines in the program
and we can relax and allow ourselves
to be battered by Mr. Helpmann’s bril-
liant stage-craft
r™.,. . f , .
something to satisfy every kind
f artl * tlc . ° r emotional thrill-seeker: raw
T ™ lence ’ masic W Malcolm
r nold, stunning decor by Arthur Boyd,
a L nd SOme , acrobatlcs whl ch could hold
their own in a circus tent. In the midst
° f , hIS the . onl y. character which never
r s a y convinces is Orestes, who carries
L l 6 ma J or share of the serious dancing,
Bryan Lawrence coped well enough with
the technical difficulties, so the fault must
lie in the choreography which, in this
case, seems meaningless while the rest
of the cast advanced the action with
every movement.
Kathleen Gorham again showed her
complete mastery of all aspects of dance
and mime, as expected. Less expected
was the superb performance of Janet
Karin in her first heavy character role as
Clytemnestra. In this she clearly demon-
strates that she possesses that most vital
attribute needed by a top ballerina, not
technique (which she has), not good
looks (which she also has), but “presence;’
“personal magnetism,” or call it what you
will. After this showing Peggy van Praagh
should have less fear of the effect Miss
Gorham’s departure from the company
after this tour will have.
The second novelty of. the evening, con-
sidered as a first effort by a new choreog-
rapher, must also be considered a success.
To sustain a non-story ballet for any
length of time is not easy, and the choreo-
graphic inventiveness shown by Garth
Welch reminds me of the limitless out-
pourings of Balanchine, who does this
kind of thing in his sleep.
This does not mean that “Illyria” is
of Balanchine standard, but that Garth
Welch has a natural feeling not only for
choreographing in his own solos and pas
de deux but, more importantly, massed
ensembles. He also avoids the pitfall of
most first ballets, excessive length. Con-
ciseness is a positive virtue in abstract
ballet. “Illyria” is too light, too indefinite
to be more than an enjoyable curtain-
raiser, but it shows that the company
has an important talent in a field which
has to date been dominated by guest
artists.
Having said such flattering things, I
regret to add that “Illyria” was not seen
at its best in Melbourne. While the
individual dancing was good, the ensemble
work was ragged. A trifle as light as this
must be technically perfect to succeed.
Since the music by Peter Tahourdin
(specially commissioned, an admirable
practice!) is little more than a suitable
accompaniment, the ballet must rely on
precise interpretation of the choreog-
rapher’s aims. In this it failed.
A possible excuse, if excuses must be
made, may have been the last minute
substitution of “The Lady and the Fool”
for “Pineapple Poll.” I did not look for-
ward to seeing this ballet yet again, but
was pleasantly surprised. The old war-
horse retains a lot of sparkle, Verdi’s
music,' no matter how trifling, is always
charming, and there is a real story which
can be followed easily.
Here the ensemble worked well to-
gether and the large cast was universally
good. Ray Powell’s Bootface is an inter-
nationally classic interpretation which
seems ageless. Marilyn Jones was superb
as La Capricciosa and Bryan Lawrence
did well as Moondog, though he lacked
some of the necessary pathos. If the
company can bring “Illyria” up to the
same standard this should be one of the
best balanced programes the ballet has
had.
JOHN CARGHER


ZT777.• •• • • v-sv.y
g
• .-I*•« •* • •* .
•• . •
••
• •
1 %
* • *
t • ♦
• * •
\ • •
• 4 •
. ©
• t.
• .©
• H •• %
fresh air comes in all shapes and sizes
The Carrier nameplate appears on air
conditioners of every shape and size. It’s your
guarantee of quality. It signifies an excellent
product, backed by the world-wide reputation
of the Carrier Organisation. No other
manufacturer of air conditioning equipment
can match the range, service or years of
experience of Carrier. This is why more people
select Carrier than any other make of
air conditioning system.
Is your name on one of the boxes?
FIRST NAME IN AIR CONDITIONING
1440/65X
television
Day by weary day
'JpELEVISION’S weekday programs seem
to be aimed mostly at little old ladies
who have spent the morning thumping
people with their shopping bags, snarling
at shop assistants, and stamping on feet
with their Cuban heels as they plunge
into buses. That puts them in just the
mood to watch “Beauty and the Beast,”
which has questions from such a lot of
pitiable women, or “It Could Be You”
with Tommy Hanlon in a tarn o’shanter,
wall-to-wall bathos, and such demonstra-
tions of human kindness from the com-
pere as giving a wheelbarrow full of
shrubs to a woman who can only afford
public transport. What laughs these pro-
grams must give women with open
heads.
For women with open minds there is
pitifully little, an occasional good film, a
little discussion during “Beauty and the
Beast,” in which the various beauties are
usually women of liberal views, and the
Beast is a good showman with a develop-
ing use of mock-intolerant humor.
Channel 2 is “for the schools” until 5
p.m. and commercial television for the
birds until 4 p.m., when it assumes that
children are home and serves them a
diversity of programs from “Owly’s
School” to “Kommotion,” the teenage
show with the charge, like mescalin.
The period of women’s programs, say
noon to 4 p.m., contains four or five
repeat movies and repeats of old series.
The only attempt at a public interest
program is “People in Conflict,” a local
series based on a Canadian one, in which
a panel discusses such supposedly everyday
problems as “a husband is disgusted with
his wife’s treatment of the domestic help.”
Overall, television’s approach seems to be
a male one of “what will we show the
hens today?” More than any other area
of television it follows the afternoon news-
paper line, a program is just something
to sandwich among the advertisements.
This may be based on an idea that
women have full access to the evening
programs. It is rarely so. Children
and male adults mostly have first choice.
If the TV channels can do no better in
daytime programs for women, at least
let them rationalise as the competing air-
lines do, so that most similar programs
do not take off at the same time. As
the present arid daytime programming con-
tains overseas repeats, surely it could em-
brace local ones? But more than that,
it should be a “women’s world” area,
devoted to women’s interests.
“Beauty and the Beast” is halfway there,
and pointing ahead. It is not about cook-
ing, sewing, or fashions, but offers subject
matter women like to talk about, and
that takes in almost everything. Any mind
less than half stupefied by its own sup-
posed brilliance would realise the pos-
sibilities of new audience development
by livelier daytime programming. The
most depressing fact is that the same
faults, and the same daytime programming,
are the rule in all States.
FRANK ROBERTS


Write
your
way to
success!
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( ) Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott’s step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
STOTT'S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles 1
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please 1
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss..
ADDRESS |
AGE J
I understand that no sales representative will
cail on me. 8 2 36 5
topcon
_ I
MEASURES
All THE'
i/GHT
Ml MATTERS
THROUGH THE LENS!
Topcon camera*
have no limitation
to automation. For illus-
trated literature con-
tact: R. Cunt Pty, Ltd..
24 Wentworth /~\
Ave., AJs
Sydney. / 'wjj
BOOKS
The defectors
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
The Penkovsky Papers. Oleg Penkovsky.
Foreword by Edward Crankshaw. $4.60.
MOST of our information about the
true nature of the Soviet-Com-
munist enterprise is based on testi-
monies of intelligent defectors from the
Soviet Party-State apparatus or from its
global affiliates. An important part of
Soviet political warfare against the rest of
the world is to create a synthetic picture
of reality—not so much by lying, but
simply by excluding the concept of truth
as a relevant factor from human dis-
course. Propositions are “generated”
irrespective of whether they are true or
not, merely on the grounds of their fitting-
ness into the mechanically paranoid
dreamworld, with its own language rules.
Defectors, particularly analytically
minded ones, constitute a major nuisance
for the dreamworld-mongers. No device
is left untried to discredit them. Since
Soviet propaganda is quite cleverly attuned
to the manifold needs, interests, and
phantasies of the target groups, and totally
unscrupulous in its methods, most de-
fectors have in fact been discredited even
before some of them have actually been
murdered. Yet there can be no doubt
now that the testimonies of defectors,
ranging from major figures such as
Trotsky or General Krivitsky to small fry
such as Gouzenko, Kravchenko, and
Petrov, have not only been true, but they
have been confirmed almost entirely in
subsequent admissions from Stalin’s heirs.
It would therefore be very imprudent to
repeat the mistakes of the past and to
dismiss the stories of contemporary defec-
tors lightly.
Oleg Penkovsky is the most important
Chekist defector at least since General
Walter Krivitsky in 1937. Yet, unlike
Krivitsky, Penkovsky’s emigration was
spiritual rather than physical. When he
broke with the regime he decided to
remain in his post as Colonel of Soviet
Military Intelligence (GRU) and to
supply Britain and the U.S.A. with top-
level military and political secrets. He
carried out this activity, fully knowing the
enormous personal risk and aware of the
inevitable fatal outcome, between April,
1961, and August, 1962, using Grenville
Wynne, a British businessman, as go-
between. Eventually he and Wynne were
caught and tried. Penkovsky was sen-
tenced to death and shot in spring, 1963,
and Wynne received a term of imprison-
ment. While working for the West, Pen-
kovsky kept a sort of running written com-
mentary on his thoughts, activities, and
observations, which were eventually
smuggled out and passed on to another
ex-Chekist now living in exile, one Peter
Deriabin, who translated and edited the
present selection.
The Penkovsky papers contain material
which is invaluable to the student of con-
temporary Soviet affairs. Yet it is very
often not what Penkovsky himself wishes
to emphasise that constitutes his most
illuminating information. Thus, his main
thesis, that Khrushchev was fully com-
mitted to a pre-emptive rocket attack on
the West, must be dismissed as unsub-
stantiated by the evidence which he actu-
ally presents. Penkovsky displays a seer-
ing personal hatred for Khrushchev, which
whilst morally justified is psychologically
quite odd. The Soviet leaders are a fairly
homogeneous group of people, the end-
products of a remorseless selection pro-
cedure which puts a premium on total
amorality, a certain personal greyness, and
on highly developed skills in the deadly
game of oriental court intrigue. There
are no grounds for assuming—and Pen-
kovsky presents none—that Khrushchev
was in any way significantly better or
worse than his ghoulish peers.
Penkovsky’s motivation to defect seems
to have been threefold: Like many other
men of his generation he became
increasingly impatient and disgusted
with the obscurantist tyranny imposed
on the Russian people by what
he thought were unworthy and evil men.
Then there came an unexpected and
undeserved blow to his career when a
belated discovery that his father had fought
with the Whites in the Civil War led to
difficulties. And finally there was a severe
conflict of values between Penkovsky the
upright military man with a brilliant war
record and the murky and treacherous
milieu of the Cheka into which his duties
as an intelligence officer had forced him.
Khrushchev’s rocket-based strategic doc-
trines led to massive dismissals, retrench-
ments, and retirements in the Soviet
officers corps. The discontents and status
anxieties generated in this manner among
the Soviet oficierstvo are reflected in Pen-
kovsky’s implacable attitude toward the
former First Secretary. The sight of
veteran and decorated marshals and
generals—some of them Penkovsky’s pro-
tectors and relatives—being “f—d about”
and spied upon by an undeserving bunch
of apparatchiks and Chekists seems to
have been the last straw.
A common misconception current
equally among pro- and anti-Communists
is that Soviet leaders are implacable
zealots, totally dedicated to the secular
religion of Communism. The picture
which emerges from the Penkovsky papers
is quite different: it portrays demoralised
and unscrupulous racketeers, bent on
illicit privilege, loot, and power, whose
“Communism” is pretty much on a par with
the “Christianity” of renaissance popes.
It is a reassuring picture, since, in the long
run it is easier to deal with gangsters
rather than with rampant heresiarchs. Yet,


■* *&**.<✓
RADDOO 0000 0
jom CITXSSK
ROY 88
The worlds most
powerful piece
of pasteboard
Small in your pocket. Only 3” x 2”. But
when you produce it, the world is yours.
No cash or cheques are needed, you can
charge practically anything meals,
travel and theatre tickets, clothing,
flowers, even a haircut. Your credit is
good wherever there’s a Diners’ Club blue
sign on a window in 110 countries. But
above all, to carry a Diners’ Club card is
efficient. So convenient. No cash is re-
quired. No cheques either. Your credit is
established with a wave of your card. It’s
the best red-tape cutter in the world to-
day. Apply for your Diners’ Club card
now. The Diners’ Club in any capital
city.—Advt.
is it a complete picture? What seems to
have eluded Penkovsky, the simple-minded
and upright soldier, is that beneath all
the illicit luxury, back-stabbing, whoring,
and stealing there is a self-propelled polit-
ico-ideological system which defines very
strictly the frame of reference within
which the power elite may disport itself
but which it is nevertheless committed
to maintain. There is a world of differ-
ence between an “ordinary” racketeer and
a Marxist-Leninist racketeer. The latter
is, so to say, a racketeer of a “new type.”
What men like Penkovsky ought to
attempt is to follow Djilas and try to
understand the casual connections between
the system and the ethos of the men it
carries to the top: moral indignation alone,
no matter how justified, is not enough.
The man who can teach them how to do
it may be freely read in the U.S.S.R.
His name is Karl Marx.
The most disturbing item in the Pen-
kovsky papers is his description of the
activities of the Cheka. Under Yagoda,
Yezhov, and Beria the Cheka developed
into an all-encompassing terror machinery,
with its own army, a concentration-camp
empire of about twenty millions, and an
international network of assassination,
blackmail and corruption. It was adminis-
tered from Stalin’s personal secretariat and
used inter alia to maintain his own total
hegemony within the party apparatus.
Since Stalin’s death the autonomy of the
Cheka has been drastically reduced, its
internal methods have been somewhat
humanised, and it has been placed under
strict supervision by the Party Presidium
through a Committee of State Security
(KGB) in a manner which makes it diffi-
cult for any one faction of the Presidium
to gain complete control over it. Yet
what Penkovsky reveals is that whilst the
autonomy of the Cheka may have been
reduced, its scope of operation, particu-
larly abroad, has been vastly increased
under Khrushchev.
All types of relations with foreign coun-
tries are now directed and organised by
Cheka personnel with frightful purpose-
fulness and subordinated exclusively to the
goal of recruiting agents and conducting
espionage and subversion. This includes
not only the activities of the entire Soviet
diplomatic corps, but the actions of
organisations ostensibly set up to promote
cultural exchanges, scientific conferences,
“peace” activities, and religious dia-
logue. Among the organisations staffed
totally by Chekists, Penkovsky includes
among others Intourist, The Soviet
Academy of Sciences, Sovexportfilm, The
Patrice Lumumba Friendship University,
the Red Cross, the Councils for Religious
Affairs, Tass, the Committee for Cultural
Relations with Foreign Countries, the
Union of Soviet Friendship Societies, and
the All-Union “International Book” Asso-
ciation. The complete list is on pp. 72-73.
The directorates of Military Intelligence
(GRU) and the Secret Police proper
(KGB) overlap.
All countries have always maintained
intelligence and security organisations, but
the activities of the Cheka are quite dif-
ferent both in quantity and in quality.
They are paralleled only by sister organi-
sations in other Communist countries and
by the SS-Gestapo complex of the Third
Reich. And yet, viewed in terms of pro-
fessional intelligence criteria, the record of
the Cheka is rather dim. Before the war
it wasted its manpower and resources
hunting down Trotskyites and not being
much good in what ought to have been
its main job—to supply the Government
with credible data about Nazi Germany.
Chekists were constantly forced to “inter-
pret” and select their data so as to fit
the delusions of the dictatorship. Goaded
and misled by stool-pigeons from the
Gestapo, the Cheka was instrumental in
destroying the entire leadership of the
Red Army, which facilitated the subse-
quent job of the Wehrmacht in Russia
very considerably. It is impossible to
believe that the gigantic and growing
expenditure of manpower, money, and
organisational facilities is warranted by
returns they get from our own open
societies, in which it is almost-impossible
to keep secrets of any kind in peacetime
anyhow and where the game is conse-
quently not worth the candle. Why then
does it go on?
A key to the puzzle is contained in
Penkovsky’s report that since 1960 the
Cheka has been working again with arrd
through Western Communist parties, after
a period of abstinence following the post-
war spy scandals in Britain and the G.S.A.
Since members of Western Communist
parties are presumably subjected to intense
security surveillance and screening as a
matter of routine, co-operation with them
does not seem to be a very rational method
of obtaining good and up-to-date intel-
ligence. The puzzle is solved once we
realise that for the Secret Police of a
totalitarian State gathering of intelligence
is a mere pretext. Its real purpose is the
maintenance of a state of terror at home
and the export of terror and demoralisa-
tion into the body politic of target societies.
The moral and political corruption
engendered by agencies of the Soviet
Secret Police in Western societies is mani-
fold. Many citizens are reduced, goaded,
or misled into illicit and criminal activ-
ities, turned into instruments of destruc-
tion against their own free communities,
and exposed to murder and blackmail.
Public life is poisoned when police
agencies of a totalitarian State set them-
selves up as sub-rosa participants in our
domestic, political, and cultural life. The
powerful currents of wishful thinking
which are hankering after a permanent
“detente” with Russia lead us to accept
the foul deeds of the Cheka as “normal,”
thereby blunting our own legal and moral
sensibilities. And, finally, to meet the
threat the activities of our own intelligence
and security services must be expanded in
scope, influence, and independence—a
doubtful blessing for a democratic com-
munity: James Bond is not the right kind
of folk-hero for liberal humanists.
We hear a lot about the U.S.S.R. turn-
ing itself into a “normal” great power.
The siren song that “the cold war is over”
is echoed in the most unlikely quarters,
particularly in Western Europe. Perhaps
all this may happen one day, though
Freud’s warning that we should beware of
beliefs which happen to correspond to our
wishes was meant not only for theologians.
Yet as long as the Soviet Government
continues to maintain and to expand its
global engine of murder, blackmail, and
defamation it is impossible to believe that
the leopard has changed its spots.
Two Poems
1. ALONE
Locked in this soft cell of flesh I am alone.
I listen to the slow creep of my blood
Along the veins, the tiny chime of bone,
A sibilance of hair, a whisper in the lunk.
My eyes are quiet in their lake of tears.
Prisoner and jailer in the soft cell
I hold my breath
For sounds of love or death.
2. TOGETHER
The autumn night moves on your listening
face.
I think you wait for me to give you news
Of a half-recollected, half-imagined place
We shared. But that was summer country,
Tossed with birds and lemon groves,
The pastures shimmered in a colored
dream.
Sunsets like wounds bled on our mutual
sky.
What if I tell you all the signs are down,
The tracks grassed over, the maps
destroyed and I
No longer speak the language?
From silence we came together and now
return
To silence again, each in his lonely skin.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL


CATHOLIC
ENQUIRY
CENTRE
. . . offers a free correspon-
dence course of 20 weekly
lessons on the Catholic
Faith to any non-Catholic
who requests it.
The sole purpose of this offer
is to give interested enquirers an
easy and confidential way of
learning what Catholics believe,
and why. Post the coupon to the
Catholic Enquiry Centre for the
brochure on this
FREE
Correspondence Course
The lessons are easy to read
and take only 20 minutes to
study each week. During the
course you may write as often
as you wish, and have all your
questions answered by personal
letter, in strict confidence.
There is absolutely no obli-
gation of any kind. We cannot
give you our Faith—only God
can do that —but we can give
you the facts about the Faith and
remove misunderstandings.
Post coupon for
brochure
L
All correspondence is treated
as strictly confidential and is
posted in plain sealed envelopes.
We guarantee that no represen-
tative of ours will call.
■ FREE and IN CONFIDENCE'
Please send your brochure
in plain, sealed envelope.
8U32
Mr./Mrs./Miss
(Block letters, please)
Address
. State
CATHOLIC ENQUIRY
CENTRE
P.O. Box 63, Maroubra, N.S.W.
d
Genius in Alien Sydney
By IAN CROSS
Seven Poor Men of Sydney. Christina
Stead. Angus and Robertson. $3.25.
IF Christina Stead were publishing her
first novel this year, the event would
almost certainly be hailed as the arrival
of a major writer, perhaps a genius. But
“Seven Poor Men of Sydney” was pro-
duced in 1934, and this edition, the first
of her books to be published in her native
land, carries for a reviewer reading her
for the first time a little sadness and frus-
tration, because one is deprived of the
excitement of the highest expectations for
her talents. Her novel suggests possible
greatness. Yet what followed (it seems)
was a half dozen books of the kind that
placed Christina Stead in that limbo
reserved for writers most people have
heard well of, vaguely, and never read.
On the evidence of her first novel,
Christina Stead has probably always
created her own world, anvway. Seven
Poor Men of Sydney,” despite some beau-
tiful descriptive passages rn the early
chapters, and later convenient local ref-
erences in dealing wrth the rnterpenetrat-
ing lives of a group of intellectuals in the
Sydney of the 19205, is very much her
own private country. .
Two main characters, Catherine Bague-
nault and her illegitimate aa f-brother,
Michael, hold the book together. Michael,
hesitant, susceptible, timorous, unhappy,
who went to war and came back to un-
certain manhood and purpose, desetibes
himself as a “socialist” or “communist,
but is more accurately described by
another character, a cripple, as, “like me,
paralysed. His half-sister, Catherine,
twitches about him in love and anger, and
they talk and preach with and at each
other, their family, and friends. About
them looms a Sydney that is quite foreign
to me: a shabby immensity in which the
only inhabitants seen are the skulking
P oor -
It would be easy to make fun of this
book. Michael and Catherine indulge in
the torments of hypersensitive misfits
who, among their other difficulties, are
threatened by an incestuous love for each
other. They, and the other characters, not
a dinkum Aussie among them, show
extremes of mental ferment, declaiming
concoctions of dated philosophical hocus-
pocus. Michael finally commits suicide,
As for Catherine, she retires to an insane
asylum.
Yet such is the power of Christina
Stead’s imaginative writing that she poeti-
cally shapes a work of art out of many
elements vulnerable to mockery. Exact
in her particulars, she writes as if she
were gripped by visions and must splatter
her perceptions on paper before those
visions are lost. She compels the reader
to accept her world.
I’m not suggesting that “Seven Poor
Men of Sydney” is a great novel. After
a f| ne beginning it gradually declines;
Miss Stead’s convulsive talent becomes in-
creasingly untrammelled. Her characters
have as much chance of surviving as liter-
ary creations as guys tossed into a bon-
fire.
But what burns them is Christina
Stead's vision: her sense of the futility of
human life, and the poetic fantasies and
intellectual exercises she invents to find
a richer meaning for that life; her sen-
sitivity to physical detail and wTat would
seem to be a religious hunger demanding
satisfaction
Christina Stead, according to R. G.
Geering’s introduction, is living in Eng-
land, and has not published a book since
1952 . He points to the reissue in the
United States of one of her other novels
“The Man Who Loved Children,” as a
sign G f reawakening interest in her work,
“Seven Poor Men of Sydney” is likely to
stir Australia to similar interest. It is the
kind of performance in a first novel, I re-
peat, to arouse the highest expectations;
surely, in 1934, nobody could have pre-
dieted she was only going to earn a place
in limbo. What happened? I am one first
reader who is now going to turn to her
later novels to discover whether she de-
served a better fate. It would be wonder-
ful to discover that she belongs in heaven,
after all.
The Blarney of Mr. O’Brien
By PATRICK MARGAN
Writers and Politics. Conor Cruise O’Brien.
Chatto and Windus. $4.25.
IN his book “Maria Cross,” the Irish
diplomat Conor Cruise O’Brien showed
himself to be one of the few critics
capable of handling the deeper connec-
tions between religion and modern litera-
ture. He is also one of the few critics
capable of handling the connections be-
tween politics and literature. Unfortun-
ately, in his new book, “Writers and
Politics,” he does not succeed.
The argument in his introduction
amounts to this:
1. Intellectuals in Catholic countries
(e.g, Ireland, Poland) are educated
to regard truth before utility, whereas
in Anglo-Saxon countries (the West)
the reverse is true, with a resulting
penchant for hypocrisy, even lies.
2. Since peaceful co-existence (the
author’s ultimate aim) “demands a re-
duction in the lie-content of human
exchange,” we in the West shall have
to change our ways and follow the


fl m
l'-\! ><
Why shop around
for Trousers?
,Sh
•V>
Fletcher
JONES
have “got the lot”!
Choose from Australia’s biggest range
of colours, cloths and styles! You’ll be
personally fitted from 181 scientific
sizes, and save by buying direct from
the maker
from only £5.19.6
Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, Launceston.
Newcastle, Wollongong, Parramatta, Bankstown, Warringah Mall,
Miranda, Chadstone, Footscray, Forest Hill, Frankston, Geelong,
Warrnambool, Ballarat, Morwell.
FJIS9
tradition of truth, as the Polish intel-
lectuals have done. This is called “an
effort of decontamination.”
3. Following Sartre’s principle, we help
freedom in the East most by exposing
the distortions of the West; criticism,
like charity, begins at home.
4. This in effect means chipping away at
our “pro-American and anti-Com-
munist distortions and facades.”
This program of home criticism is re-
inforced by two further considerations:
5. “Our applause can neither help nor
encourage (dissenting Eastern intel-
lectuals).”
6. Anyway, the Western world suffers
from richer, “subtler and perhaps
deadlier forms of mendacity” than the
cruder “more blatant and, therefore’
less insidious” mendacities of the
Communist and poorer Afro-Asian
countries.
Whatever one may think of the other
points (the fifth, for example, is not true),
Sartre’s principle could form the basis for
a worthwhile enterprise in reducing cold
war tensions, if the varieties of anti-Com-
munism were documented and their
subtler mendacities exposed. But a strange
pattern emerges in O’Brien’s reviews: the
conclusions are often at variance with the
initial argument. The two different ways
in which this happens can be seen in the
English section on George Orwell and on
the “New Statesman” in the 19305.
In the Orwell article, the crucial fact
is immediately conceded: that his criti-
cisms of the left-wing intelligentsia were
correct. But then O’Brien detects “a Tory
growl” in Orwell’s voice, “a Tory pattern”
in his beliefs, and within a page we have
a mild English jingo, conservative, insular,
Edwardian, and xenophobic.
Similarly with the “New Statesman,”
the crucial fact is immediately documented
and conceded: it often sold out to the
totalitarian regimes in the 19305. But' to
“New Statesman” writer O’Brien (its
“honesty makes people like writing for
it”) the paper exists in a special world
where its mistakes actually become a boon
to it; we are told about its “strange, and
strangely successful, sequence of contra-
dictions, made acceptable by consistent
and agreeable tone and style,” and later
about “its good humor, its good manners,
and its intelligence. (Even when, as often,
deluded, it is deluded in an intelligent
way.)”
So we end up with the “New States-
man,” warts and all, “a great paper” (be-
cause of the warts) and we are now told
not to worry about “a few errors of judg-
ment in editorial policy”; whereas Orwell
(whose mistakes, as with the rest of us,
actually count against him) is OK, but
with some rather unfortunate tendencies.
The enormity of this position comes out
in regard to the Spanish Civil War, when
Kingsley Martin, as O’Brien willingly ad-
mits, refused Orwell’s articles on the war
(which included an account of the Com-
munist purges of the Anarchists) because
of Martin’s “temperamental unwillingness
to face unpleasant facts.” Yet it is Orwell,
not the “New Statesman,” who is called
“insensitive to the underdog.” A pattern
emerges: the major point is admitted,
and then some minor point is dwelt on to
reverse the judgment.
These contortions go on, review after
review. O’Brien’s program eventually
amounts to—and this is the only really
new thing in the book—a more plausible
(a favorite word of O’Brien’s) variant of the
fellow-travelling line of the 19305. At that
time, the left-wing intellectuals imposed no
self-denying ordinance on themselves be-
cause they were then still contriving some-
how to prise the Soviet Union. Since 1956
this is no longer possible, so the embargo
(to which O’Brien rigorously adheres) in
fact becomes convenient: it prevents
criticism of the Eastern bloc, or, in the old
terms, prevents any ammunition for the
enemy.
An example of O’Brien’s 1930 s men-
tality is his praise of Nkrumah’s Govern-
ment in Ghana for allowing freedom “not
in a formal sense but in a profound one,”
i.,e. in a dialectical one. We have been
seeing on the newsreels lately that the
Ghanians themselves didn’t like Dr. Nkru-
mah half as much as Dr. O’Brien does,
They seem to have preferred the “formal”
to the “profound” freedom after all.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Iron Ore Politics
IT certainly looks bad, but there is no scandal at all in the
trouble that Colonial Sugar Refining is reported to be having
in putting up the money for its 50 percent interest in the
Mt. Newman iron ore development in Western Australia. Instead,
what could appear as the disgraceful situation of CSR being
unable to encourage Australian lending institutions to help keep
up Australia’s share in a major iron- ore development is clearly
no more than a simple bit of political horse-trading.
Stories that CSR “is having difficulty raising sufficient capital
to meet rising development costs” are simply part of that bar-
gaining; they are not totally wrong, but they are not strictly
true, either. The clear implication of these statements are that,
if CSR does not raise the money, someone overseas will and
will get the long-term rewards and so more of Australia’s
natural resources will slip by default into foreign hands.
This is 90 percent nonsense. The facts of the thing are simple.
The CSR-Amax partnership at Mt. Newman has been faced
with an increase of 15 to 20 percent in costs of developing
Port Hedland. as a port capable of handling its ore. The partners,
particularly CSR, want to hold costs to a minimum in order
to keep the project looking attractive to the local institutions
that have already been lined up to help provide the funds for
the Australian share.
One way of cutting costs appears to be to use Hamersley
Iron’s port facilities at King Bay by extending the Hamersley
railway another 100 miles to Mt. Newman. The main objections
to this are political, as the aggressively developing WA Govern-
ment wants as many ports opened as possible. And so do the
Japanese, for a variety of reasons.
Publicly the Japanese say they prefer as many ports as possible
so that industrial trouble or a shipwreck would not hold up
exports. The real reason seems clearly that the more cash that
Australia has invested in capital works like ports, the more
eager Australia will be to accept supply contracts in order to
keep them going even at very fine profit margins indeed.
But it would be ridiculous to imply that Australian financing
institutions like banks and life assurance offices are not pulling
their weight in the Mt. Newman deal, with its 100 million
ton iron ore contract with Japan. Their position has not changed
one bit. When the proposal was first put to them that they could
share in the equity and loan-fund raising of the project (along
the lines of a similar “club” organised for the Gove bauxite
development, also by CSR), they were given cost outlines and
revenue estimates that made it clearly worth their while if the
estimates were met. Unless CSR gets agreement from the WA
Government on the port situation (and on one or twp alternative
proposals on other matters), the prospect is that these initial
estimates of profitability may not hold. What the institutions
will do then no-one knows, particularly the institutions them-
selves, because they have no idea yet of what the likely returns
will be if costs change.
So it is quite wrong to say baldly that CSR is having diffi-
MEN AND MATTERS
A SERIES of not entirely voluntary de-
partures from boardrooms in recent
times has meant that there is now no
Wallace at James Wallace (Holdings)
Ltd.; no F. J. Palmer at F. J. Palmer
Holdings Ltd. (no H.G. at H.G.P’s either);
and no George Hudson at George Hudson
Holdings Ltd.
IF the shareholders wanted me I would
stand for the board again,” Mr. F. J.
Palmer said last week after the new
management of his former company an-
nounced a further trading loss of $65,000
for the six months to January, to add to
$2 million write-downs and losses reported
last October for 1964-65. So the man
who said, “I’m through with retailing
forever,” after shareholders dumped him
from the board of the company his grand-
father had founded 85 years ago,
apparently could be induced to change his
mind; his new job as a director of a
carrier bag company may not be as excit-
ing as being chairman and managing
director of a big retailing group.
Mr. Palmer feels his replacements could
have done better. “No member of the
present board has sufficient merchandising
experience for the job in hand,”
But despite last week’s poor result from
Palmers, there has not yet been any great
move by shareholders to bring Mr. Palmer
back from the helm of his yacht to that
of his company, and he has no positive
plans to try to get into the saddle now
firmly occupied by horseracing Sydney
stockbroker, and
former deputy chair-
man of British To-
bacco, Norman Ellis
Jones (not to be
confused with BHP’s
Norman Edward
Jones). F.J. would
not talk about his
present shareholder
strength in the com-
pany. At last Novem-
ber’s annual meeting the Palmer forces
seemed heavily outnumbered by Mr.
Jones and his group, although his decision
not to call for a poll left a question mark
not only over the size of his voting sup-
port but also over where lay the sym-
pathies of Mr. A. G. Lee. Mr. Lee fills
two fascinating roles one as a “new
broom” in Mr. Jones’ team acting as chair-
man of Palmer’s N.S.W. retailing sub-
sidiary, and the other as Mr. Palmer’s son-
in-law.
AT last count, the N.S.W. Government’s
$6O million Rocks redevelopment
headache was to cost only about $lO
million more than its other headache on
the opposite, or Operatic, side of Sydney
Cove.
Directors (and former directors) of
James Wallace (Holdings) Ltd. seem too
busy throwing verbal stones at each other
to pick up the Rocks. Last week, in the
fourth major board change in a year, Mr.
A. C. Wallace (last of the Wallaces) re-
N. Jones
F. J. Palmer
N. W. Clark
signed, to follow the lead set last Sep-
tember by the former secretary, Mr.
A. G. C. Chapman, and by Mr. R. B.
Wallace in November. Mr. A. C. Wallace
had supported Mr. E. St. John, QC, who
failed to get re-elected last year after
only six months on the board when the
chairman and managing-director, Mr.
Norman Clark, organised proxies against
him.
On Mr. St. John’s initiative, three new
outside directors were elected at the
December, 1965, meeting: Mr. S. R.
Brown, a chartered accountant and
author of a book on the responsibilities of
company directors (a nominee of Mr. St.
John), Mr. C. H. Mansell, a solicitor,
and closely identified with Mr. Clark, and
Mr. M. E. Lawrence, a civil engineer.
Mr. St. John has bad luck with his
companies. It was not so long ago that
he and Dr. George Hudson were voted
out of the boardroom at George Hudson
Holdings Ltd., the slightly ringbarked
timber company.


culty in raising the money. CSR’s greatest difficulty at present
is working out what its costs on its various alternatives are
going to be, so that it can put up a clear and viable proposition
to its club members and, of course, to convince the authorities
that the cheapest of these alternatives is the best one for everyone.
CSR has some fairly good links with Canberra, and Mr.
McEwen has been unashamedly campaigning for CSR and its
local partners to get the best possible deal, even though this
could annoy the WA Government. Prospects of success do not
look too bad. WA’s livewire Minister for Industrial Develop-
ment, Mr. Charles Court, has said that, while he would prefer
Port Hedland to be developed, he would “not be adamant” if it
meant the Australian partner would be unduly prejudiced, and
he has extended Mt. Newman’s deadline for presenting its de-
velopmental proposals from this month until the middle of
next. For ports are clearly in the WA Government’s jurisdiction
in iron ore; the Commonwealth’s role is limited to export permits
and price. Agreement may not be far off.
Mr. McEwen, as accomplished a professional as you could
meet in politics, started the “shortage of cash” story by talking
of his negotiations on behalf of CSR over the cost-rise problem
and then saying, “Whereas gigantic mining companies overseas
are able to command capital to take care of the requirements of
developmental expenditure higher than originally contemplated,
the situation in the Australian capital market is more difficult.”
This is good political bargaining stuff, and stockholders in
CSR should recognise it as such. In all this it is significant that
CSR has said nothing; as far as its shareholders know, there is
no financial difficulty in the iron ore project. And that will
probably end up closer to the truth than anything.
Diamond Politics
GROWING disillusionment with South African (and
Rhodesian) politics may have been an even greater propel-
lent of diamond king Mr. Harry Oppenheimer to Australia
than the evident success being enjoyed here by such groups as
Consolidated Gold Fields, one of his old rivals on the veldt.
The election just held in South Africa gave Dr. Verwoerd
and his Nationalist Party 60 percent of the votes, and with such
overwhelming support he is expected to relax apartheid in the
economic sphere, but tighten it politically.
Mr. Oppenheimer was a member of the United Party, cur-
rently the official Opposition, until 1959, when his attitudes had
grown more liberal than the party line. In the latest election he
gave moral and financial support to Mrs. Helen Suzman, who
is the “Voice of the Voteless,” and was the only Progressive anti-
apartheid candidate to gain a seat.
As chairman of the Anglo-American Corporation of South
Africa Ltd. and De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., Mr. Oppen-
heimer controls financial, industrial, and mining interests in
South Africa, Rhodesia, Zambia, and elswhere, including gold
and uranium, diamonds, copper, coal and coke, and a new steel
and vanadium plant. Australian interests are limited so far to
prospecting for copper, cobalt, zinc, and nickel in the Fraser
Range, for base metals in the Pilbara district, and gold at Kal-
goorlie Southern (all in W.A.), for gold in the old fields of Vic-
toria, and for tin off Tasmanian shores. Success in one of these
would allow reinvestment of the proceeds in Australia.
Openly attracted by our political stability, Mr. Oppenheimer
also mentioned that Australia, as a continuing member of the
British Commonwealth, has access to this great trading area,
even if the Commonwealth was no longer a great political power.
The New Look
THIS week’s Business and Finance section has been substanti-
ally increased to include some important new features
and to reintroduce some old ones. Back once again are the
“Wild Cat” pages of investment advice, including Pointers to the
Market, Behind the Balance Sheets, and a Mining Page. New
features are Men and Matters, a Business Book Review, and
Australia’s most informative selective list of share prices of major
stocks and indexes made up to last Friday that should be of value
not only to Australian but to the many overseas readers who have
requested it. This is in addition to the established features
Croesus, Commentary, an industry survey, Security Analysis
(and the Chartist), the Week Briefly, Commodities, Man on the
Land, and Speculator’s Diary.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy ! A post-Easter lull carried
over into a great dearth of official comment on Australia’s
economic fortunes, so it was left to the London
“Economist” to fill the gap under the rubric “Australia
has its troubles” (see page 64). With resumption of the
basic wage hearings in the offing, generalities will soon
be in full swing again ... In view of the motor industry’s
recent downturn many hopes are attached to the saving
powers of the new Holden; other makers, and especially
the parts suppliers, are holding their breath . . . Likewise
the chemical industry is waiting in a hush for the Tariff
Board’s report, soon to be given prolonged attention by
the Department of Trade.
Sheet steel imports gave quite a leap in February in
the face of John Lysaght’s plea for emergency protection
. . . Home and export returns from butter sales are
expected to decline this year ... Copper prices have
come under upward pressure from Chilean producers,
yet most local producers have agreed to hold the domestic
price steady . . . The end of the week brought a cheerful
and significant bonus: Skelly Oil, Dow Chemical, Swift
(U.S.A.), and Japan’s Mitsubishi are to build a $4O
million fertiliser plant in Brisbane and will use natural
gas piped from the Associated Oil group’s Roma field.
For the markets ! Investors did not allow them-
selves too much rest after Easter and by Friday the Aus-
tralian share markets had attained a reasonably firm look.
Indeed, the Sydney all-ordinaries index reached its best
level since late February, putting on 3.73 points over
the week. Base metals naturally made a major contri-
bution to this advance, touching a two months’ peak. A
fair volume of speculation was obviously instigated by
overseas copper moves. There still remain sensitive areas:
automotives are clearly waiting on the Holden release.
London appears to be maintaining a drab calm after
the elections and has already started to discount a Budget
sure to deal with Mr. Wilson’s “long tough struggle ahead.”
Investors must principally make up their minds on chances
of a higher corporation tax . . . Wall Street has been
making relatively undramatic advances, although these
have assuredly occurred on high volumes. Like London,
tax uncertainties overhang dealings.
For companies! The Brisbane fertiliser scheme
must be accounted the most significant piece of the week’s
news and Dow’s participation doubtless throws light on
the Amalgamated Chemicals’ takeover puzzle . . . Another
developmental project definitely came up trumps with
Comalco’s initial $1,424,000 dividend (half of which goes
to C.R.A.) from trading profit of $3,579,514 for 1965 .. .
Veteran coal miner and shipowner Howard Smith, whose
large holding in oil-boomed BHP is giving it an each-
way bet in the energy business, suffered a 28 percent
profit decline, yet did not have to touch a still well-
covered fifth successive ten percent dividend . . . Touch
the dividend tile and pipe maker Wunderlich did after
an “appreciable” jump in earnings; 12| percent had been
paid for nine years and now becomes 15 percent.
The chairman of Associated Portland Cement Manu-
facturers told his shareholders the meaning of over-
capacity and expects to use some of it in a newly stimu-
lated building industry . . . General Industries, closely
tied to building activity, reported trading continuing at
a high level so far this year after 1965’s record sales.
More than local conditions have to stimulate sugar
miller Plane Creek Central, whose profit retreated by 64
percent in 1965; directors did not bother to cite the world
sugar situation . . . Textiler Castlemaine Woollen has
asked for Government assistance to keep going . . . Black
coal producer Coal and Allied Industries had a “very
satisfactory” half-year . . . Australian Guarantee Corpora-
tion enjoys the confidence of the Bank of N.S.W., which
has bought another 1.2 million AGC shares to lift its
holding to 43 percent.


NOW OPEN!
2
FOR 10
15 OR 20
YEARS
3
8
FOR 7
YEARS
PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST UNCONDITIONALLY
GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
You back the growth of Industry in Sydney when you invest in the SCC Loan
An Authorised Trustee Investment. Holders of SCC Loan No. 158,
maturing 1/5/66, are invited to convert to the new Loan.
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank, Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New South Wales, The Com-
mercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited, Rural Bank of New
South Wales, or through a stockbroker; or at the Council’s head office,
Queen Victoria Building, George Street, Sydney (Phone 2-0259).
Underwriters: A. C. Goode and Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
@OO
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
44.885


_ 4%
FOR 4YEARS
OR 6 YEARS
S 3
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from —
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank,
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in N.S.W.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.,
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest & Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
Phones
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 311861
Perth 21 6273
BENEFICIAL
JP
FLY TO TOKYO
HONG KONG, BANGKOK
SWISSCARE b WORLDWIDE
THE ECONOMY
Finance for Development
Unnecessary overseas borrowing
AUSTRALIA has borrowed overseas unnecessarily, says economist K. F. SHIELS,
who suggests in this article that a greater proportion of the cost of major develop-
mental projects should be financed from local savings.
Capital has been flowing into Australia
at a heavy rate for several years and con-
tinues unabated despite the action taken
by the two principal suppliers—U.K. and
U.S.A.—to restrict their outflow.
There is no doubt that Australia
requires foreign capital and “know how”
in large quantities, but a serious question
which we must ask ourselves is whether
the ready availability of foreign capital
is causing us to relax internally. A large
capital inflow will save Government from
making unpopular decisions with which
they would otherwise be faced. If capital
inflow were smaller, would we make more
strenuaus efforts to raise finance internally?
If the answer to this question is “yes,”
then it follows that we are saddling our
descendants with a partly unnecessary
burden of foreign debt and control of
industry.
A large part —possibly the bulk —of
capital inflow into Australia is used on
capital projects which we could not carry
out unaided. In many cases, risk capital
could not be raised in Australia on the
scale required for very large projects. In
many cases, too, even if we could raise
the finance, we would not have the neces-
sary “know how” and overseas connec-
tions.
However, there are also many capital
projects which we could carry out our-
selves—in some cases by buying overseas
“know how.” In these cases, we would
have the choice of using local savings or
overseas capital to provide the necessary
finance.
It would always be preferable to use
local finance as far as practicable before
calling on overseas finance. The principle
that overseas capital should only be
accepted for capital projects which we
could not carry out otherwise is a funda-
mental one that does not appear to have
received the attention it deserves.
It will be objected that if we were to
reduce capital inflow by financing more
investment from local savings, we would
forgo the addition which capital inflow
makes to our international reserves and
that this would create balance of payments
problems. Our balance of payments on
current account is usually heavily in
deficit and we rely on capital inflow to
meet this deficit.
There is some truth, but also some
fallacy, in this line of reasoning. Admit-
tedly, many new capital projects require
substantial imports of plant and machin-
ery, and to this extent partial reliance on
overseas capital will be necessary. How-
ever, if we were to finance more invest-
ment from higher local savings, rather
than from overseas capital, we would
automatically reduce the rate of growth in
consumption expenditure and this, in
turn, would tend to reduce imports and so
at least partly offset the effect on the
balance of payments of lower capital in-
flow.
. , , , , ,
the question has often been asked
. . * .. , . , r
whether Australia's balance of payments
is vulnerable because of our heavy reliance
on capital inflow to finance continuing
current account deficits. If capital inflow
over which we have no control fell
away, would our balance of payments be
in trouble?
The answer depends upon what will
happen to investment expenditure in Aus-
tralia in the event of a substantial reduc-
tion in capital inflow. If the capital inflow
is being used for capital projects which
we .could not carry out otherwise then it
follows that capital expenditure in Aus-
tralia would automatically decline as
capital inflow declined, and this, in turn,
would cause a fall in imports, so helping
to offset the effect on the balance of pay-
ments of the reduction in capital. inflow.
On the other hand, if capital inflow is
being used on projects which we could
carry out ourselves and, after a contrac-
tion in capital inflow, we attempted to
carry them out ourselves, there could then
be serious pressures upon our balance of
payments and internal cost structure.
This suggests two broad aims for the
Government’s financial policies firstly,
to encourage the highest practicable level
of savings within Australia and, secondly,
to ensure that the institutional arrange-
ments for channelling savings into invest-
ment are working effectively and that
there are no undue blockages in these
channels.
The rate of saving in Australia appears


Wherever you g 0...
However you g 0...
the mtES Travel Service
can take care of all details
The Bank of New South Wales, Australians
largest travel service, can handle every aspect
of your trip accommodation, bookings, in-
surance, passport, travel finance.
You don’t have to be a Wales customer • . .
the Wales Travel Service is available to everyone#
c«ft
tJa®
Before you make any
travel bookings,
consult
the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MALES
AUSTRALIA'S FIRST BANK
•11251
to be relatively high, so far as this can be
measured by statistics, which are acknow-
ledged to be deficient when used for pur-
poses of international comparisons. How-
ever, our rate of saving seems to be much
lower than in Japan, and one does not
need to be a statistician to know that it
could be higher still in Australia.
How much higher our savings could be
is largely a matter of opinion and personal
choice. Individuals and communities—
are always willing to forgo some present
consumption for the sake of future gain,
either to themselves or their descendants.
It must be influenced to a large degree by
the incentives to save offered by the Gov-
ernment (or the disincentives, as in the
means test for old-age pensions) and by the
range and efficiency of the facilities avail-
able to attract savings.
In its present stage of development Aus-
tralia should be a world leader in devising
schemes to encourage saving, but many of
the older countries seem to be ahead of
us in this respect. Among the many
different methods of encouraging savings
in Australia that could be suggested are:
• A national scheme of superannuation,
allied with abolition of the means test.
• Compulsory savings bonds for young
people, repayable on marriage or on
reaching a specified age. If a generous
interest rate were allowed and the interest
was withheld and compounded until repay-
ment of the bond, this could significantly
increase the amount of the repayment and
go some way to offset the compulsory
element in the scheme. Immediate repay-
ment could be permitted in cases of hard-
ship. Incidentally, such a scheme would
help greatly to get rid of the so-called
“deposit gap” for home purchasers.
• Adjustment of private superannuation
funds to provide growing pensions after
retirement rather than fixed pensions in
order to provide for inflation. In effect,
members of superannuation funds which
pay fixed pensions or fixed lump sums on
retirement (i.e., virtually all funds) are
not at present providing sufficient contri-
butions to meet the likely growth in living
costs after retirement.
• A compulsory “cooling off” period of
a few days in ali hire purchase and similar
sales contracts, enabling calmer family
counsels to prevail over high-pressure
salesmanship—as is proposed by the
N.S.W. Government.
• When a wage increase is awarded (e.g.,
by the Arbitration Commission) employees
could be given the option of taking the
increase by way of an annual or half-
yearly bonus rather than by increase in
ordinary wages or salaries. This is a prac-
tice which has developed in Japan
with favorable effects on savings. The
employees’ representatives before the Arbi-
tration Commission might consider whether
this would benefit both employees and the
nation.
Various other ways of encouraging sav-
ings have been suggested or have actually
been adopted overseas. It seems reasonable
that we could be doing more in Australia
and that our failure to do so is due partly
to the ready availability of foreign capital
on a large scale. To this extent we have
borrowed unnecessarily.


DEBENTURE STOCK
and
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
up to
0
per
annum
Interest paid quarterly
CURRENCIES
Debenture
Stock
Unsecured
Deposit
Notes
SHORT
TERM
3 months
6 months
12 months
61%
5i%
64%
74%
LONG
TERM
2 years
4 years
5 years
6-10 years
7i%
8%
ti%
m
71%
m
HOW TO I NVEST
Applications can only be
accepted on the appropriate form
issued with the
Prospectus now available
from
• Any Branch of the National
Bank of Australasia Limited
• Any Stockbroker
• Any Waltons store or office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, G.P.0.,
Sydney
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
W6O
What to Do About Women
Their role in industry
By CROSEUS
“TTTOMEN, women . . . what can we do about them? ...” goes the old jingle,
¥ ¥ which simply poses an age-long problem without providing any answers, economic-
ally speaking or otherwise. The question here is what are we going to do for them
to ensure they are attracted in greater numbers into industry, and even public life.
Unfortunately they have few champions
geared to push their barrow, either in-
dustrially or politically, like, say, Mrs.
Campbell-Tiech, the ALP candidate for
Henty, whose intimate “Opening of
Campaign Headquarters” at Oakleigh,
Croesus attended last week. He came
away thinking what a good thing it would
be if women had a few voices like hers
in the House of Representatives to
remove, as she said, its Athenaeum Club
atmosphere.
Last year, when he was Minister for
Labor, the Federal Treasurer, Mr. Mc-
Mahon, threw out a challenge to em-
ployers to improve their conditions for
the employment of women and got the
immediate answer that the Federal Gov-
ernment should give a lead by doing like-
wise in the public service. Following
steps taken by the Reserve Bank to do
something for its married women, the
Public Service Board made some adjust-
ments. Yet these are no substitute for the
new deal women are looking for or for
wh£t is required if industry’s needs and
the Government’s own projections for a
greatly increased participation of women
in the work-force are to be realised.
To put the Australian position in per-
spective, although the numbers of married
women in the work-force have been rising
both absolutely and as a proportion of
the total force in recent years, we are still
lagging well behind other high-income
countries in this matter. Between 1954
and 1961 the numbers of married women
employed here rose from around 258,000
to just over 400,000, and their proportion
of the total work-force from 7 to 9.6 per-
cent. Since then there has been a further
increase of about 50,000 in numbers,
bringing the proportion of the total work-
force to 11 percent.
Taking the latest figures available from
other leading high-income countries, we
find the equivalent proportions in the
United States to be 19.6 percent, Britain
18, Canada 13.5, and Sweden 13.1. Nor
are these proportions very up to date, so
that in all these countries their 1966
figures to compare with our 11 percent
would most likely be somewhat higher.
Without positive steps being taken to en-
courage the employment of married
women, official predictions that by 1971
they will comprise 12.2 percent of the
work-force, rising to 13.4 percent in 1976,
could well prove unrealistic.
A wealth of experience in furthering
the employment of women in industry is
available from other countries. One of
the most exhaustive surveys of the sub-
ject, “Women’s Life and Work” by the
Swedish Industrial Council for Social and
Economic Studies, published 18 months
ago, shows how very deeply other coun-
tries have dug into the social sciences to
arrive at their programs for the employ-
ment of women. We will certainly have
to do the same here.
If our own Government is not doing
more about the problem, it is not for
want of advice from its Treasury advisers.
In a supplement to a Treasury Informa-
tion Bulletin on “The Meaning and
Measurement of Economic Growth,”
issued in November, 1964, we find the
following clear-cut statement: “Although
it is usually hard to assess their effects
in quantitative terms, it is also undeniable
that institutional factors can have an im-
portant effect on a country’s economic
growth rate; some institutional practices
restrictive of output arise from social con-
ventions or are closely associated with them
reluctance to employ women or more
particularly married women (perhaps
through increasing opportunities for part-
time employment) would be a case in
point.”
JN the past few months Mr. McMahon has
naturally been silent on the subject of
a new employment deal for women. But
as Treasurer he has probably the most
important role to play in furthering the
ideas of his late bachelor days, when he
had leading women’s organisations warm-
ing to his notions as expressed, for in-
stance, to the Garment Industries Con-
vention in Canberra last August and to
the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures’
Conference in September.
Certainly the Treasurer would be deeply
involved if one of the solutions to the
problem is to be equal pay for women, a
subject which some of my correspondents
have been pressing me to ventilate.
Eschewing this particular course, the
Treasurer’s tax arm could most usefully
be brought to bear on it, say through
looking at the effect of current tax
formulas in the light of net joint income
when husband and wife are both earning.
As we all know, it is no fun for a husband
to lose his tax allowance for keeping his
wife while she, especially if she is in part-
time employment, spends the whole of her
own income from which tax has not been
deducted. But there is a lot more in it
than that.
Mr. McMahon’s earlier views also found
approval, at least superficially, among
employers who are just as anxious to


“I thought
they were all
good shares!”
So they were... good solid shares ... when you bought them
years ago. But times change. Established companies face
new competition and their share values can drop rapidly... or
slowly decline. Your dividends shrink, your capital melts away.
Always keep a weather eye on your investment portfolio ... or,
better, get the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company to do it for you.
Union-Fidelity has years of experience in investment
management. Our trained staff show you how to make the
most of your assets. They know how to cut income taxes
and death duties to the minimum . . . how to keep your
portfolio healthy, growing.
Times (and values) change fast. Don't ignore the warning
signals. Call The Union-Fidelity Trustee Company now for a
consultation without obligation, or post the coupon for our
informative, helpful booklet, "Estate Planning”.
The
UNION-FIDELITY
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT, GEELONG, HAMILTON, TRARALGON, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, ALBURY, CANBERRA, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, CAIRNS AND
CHARLEVILLE.
100 Exhibition Street, Melbourne
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
1 would appreciate a complimentary copy of your "Estate Planning”
Booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS.
KrassSSS
11215
UT49.102N
increase their intake of women in current
full employment conditions. It is perhan
problematical how far the majority of
them are prepared to adjust pay and work-
ing conditions to achieve this object.
A hopeful sign that Government and
employers’ interest in the subject is bein?
sustained is seen in the introduction to
the VEF’s brochure for its National
Conference on the Status of Women in
Employment, to be held at the Southern
Cross Hotel in Melbourne on May 3 and
4. Obviously Mr. McMahon’s successor
Mr. Leslie Bury, has been occupying him-
self busily on this front, though not in
public doing much more than restating
the problem rather than hinting that solu-
tions are in sight for it.
One may confidently expect a good air-
ing of angles to the problem at this con-
ference, which has attracted considerable
international attention. For instance
Japan is to send two official women repre-
sentatives, one of whom, Mrs. Yukika
Sohma, director of “All Japan Women’s
Federation,” will address the gathering on
“Social Development in Japan.” Dr. Mary
Smeaton, a British authority, will talk on
“Developing the Resources of Women’s
Power,” and Mrs. Mary Keyserling, direc-
tor of the Women’s Bureau, U.S. Depart-
ment of Labor, on “The Pattern of Em-
ployment.” Not least by any means, Lady
Casey, probably as strong a woman as
we’ve got here, will have her say in an
opening address.
Naturally, there will be a number of
men speaking also. These include Mr. J.
Riordan, of Sydney, who has been doing,
I hear, a special examination of the whole
subject of woman’s employment for the
ACTU. Mr. Bury, Sir Robert Webster,
and Professor L. M. Haynes complete the
male line-up, apart from the chairmen of
four separate sessions.
The “Economist 99 on Vs
THE “Economist” is not too happy
about the Australian scene. In the
April 9 issue it gave over its “Busi-
ness Brief” section to an article, “Aus-
tralasia Has Its Troubles” and said
that the Holt Government may have to
do something about it.
“In both Australia and New Zealand
economic growth is slowing down after
a strong boom which began in 1962 . . •
For New Zealand the most immediate
and pressing problem is to markedly
moderate and import demand . . . Aus-
tralia’s balance of payments problem is
less pressing,” it said.
“In Australia, the more immediate
problem is to ensure a continuation of a
satisfactory rate of economic expansion,
nothing that ‘weak spots in the economy
persist’.” But it says that there are big
regional differences.
For Australia it concluded: “The most
worrying aspect of the present situation is
the weakness of personal consumption
spending, and Ministers may yet be obliged
to make some tax reductions in advance
of the next annual budget; or a further
marked easing in credit policy.”


m
ON Ui 4^
How did
he do it?
| He arrived in Melbourne
*■ at 9.00 a.m.
1 He made six calls in
different suburbs.
3 He drove across town to
head office.
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends—
Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was
waiting
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon.
Within moments of your arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own, for as long as
you like. And you and the car are always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket, or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival... f
For a day, a week, or all the time.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
A F 369
BUSINESS BOOKS REVIEW
Marketing Goes Modern
Another field for the computer
TRADITIONAL marketing techniques
are on their way out for industrial
products, and, if they are to survive,
managers in this field will have to adjust
themselves to the changes. At least, that
is the view of Aubrey Wilson in a new
symposium, “The Marketing of Indus-
trial Products,” recently published by
Hutchinson of London.
Without going as far as science-fiction
concepts of handing over traditional
marketing management tasks to the big
“Black Box,” Wilson warns that the trend
is already strongly in that direction. It is
not just a question of developing tech-
niques to match the electronic data pro-
cessing systems. Equal advances are being
made in systematising the gathering of
more complete information for new pro-
duct justification, as feed for the deter-
mination of new product development.
Computers have already taken toll of
the human element over a wide area of
business. Marketing is one field that
looked a bit less vulnerable than most,
leaving some room at least for the exer-
cise of personality, push, intuition, experi-
ence, and social graces. According to Wil-
son, who defines industrial marketing as
“all those activities concerned with pur-
chases and sales of goods and services in
industrial markets and between organisa-
tional buyers and sellers,” it won’t leave
very much in that branch of business.
future there lies with simulated
models techniques and the use of com-
puters to answer the questions they pose.
Any marketing manager who does not
recognise and actively work for the im-
plementation of advanced methods faces
redundancy. In the adjustment process,
marketing managers will have to become
specialists in the art of long-range plan-
ning. Wilson believes this is the only
really new technique left to company
management to gain a major competitive
advantage. It spells the difference between
success and mediocrity in the profit and
loss account, as another writer in the book
convincingly demonstrates.
As the emphasis on long-range planning
increases, so marketing managers of in-
dustrial products will be increasingly
caught up in a general upward shift of the
organisational boundary between planning
and performance which will affect the
roles of all middle-class managers. The
process is being accelerated by the re-
versal of earlier post-war trends toward
the decentralisation of company opera-
tions, with top management now taking
an increasing share of the innovating,
planning, and creative functions of in-
dustry. This is bringing with it a sharper
demarcation between different levels of
the organisational structure.
Obviously, the planning jobs are go-
ing to become increasingly specialised. If
they exert their traditional dynamism, Wil-
son thinks marketing managers might be
expected to gain better status than their
more run-of-the-mill, middle-class col-
leagues bogged down in the rut of long-
established methods and concepts. Whether
this will happen, of course, depends a lot
on personalities of the managers involved.
One would have thought that, at least
temperamentally, men who have climbed
the ladder of market management on their
flare for contacting and selling might find
the constant companionship of computers
rather cooling. They could well feel less
at ease so near the board rooms. One
cannot see them fitting all that nicely,
either, in the sort of planning teams Wilson
envisages for the industrial scene, excit-
ingly though as he depicts them as
task forces chosen from executives known
for their imagination, audacity, origins
ality, creativity, and for their cosmopolitan
approach to business problems, regardless
of their position in the management
hierarchy.
Getting away from this aspect, another
of the writers sees what is called “perhaps
the most exotic of the technical changes”
in industrial marketing as the use of the
behavioural sciences. These have been
long in use in consumer goods marketing
to establish motivational patterns through
the investigation of psychological needs,
cultural and inter-personal influences,
economic, material and situational factors,
and so forth.
It will be interesting to see how effec-
tive this line of approach will be in the
industrial products sector of marketing,
where the main consideration of buyers
has traditionally been thought of as pro-
fitable use rather than personal gratification
(the main motive of the buyers of con-
sumer goods).
The book strongly attacks this traditional
view of the buying situation for industrial
products as being deceptively oversimpli-
fied, and even primitive. Already, it says,
the use of techniques of the behavioural
sciences has revealed new and unsuspected
motivational dimensions in the buying of
industrial products. They have shown that,
after all, the industrial buyer is a human
being (even if at times he may not seem
so to the salesmen). It is as I, at least
for one, suspected. The industrial buyer
has the same psychological drives, desires,
ambitions, urges, and biological needs as
the ordinary consumer. It is difficult to
rationalise these as feed for the big black
box.
J.C.H.


LOOK
THE ARD 52
CROSSBAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
Features: Any extension can be nominated as “operator”
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other • Outside calls dialled direct by
extension • Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
mi
mm
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD, FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 921147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 219331
rpHE main casualty in the 10 percent
fall in new cars sold so far in
1965-66 has naturally been the Holden,
the biggest seller. But Holden has, in
fact, done far worse than the industry
as a whole; its new registrations have
dropped by 23 percent (more than
double the industry’s average) over
the eight months to the end of Febru-
ary despite evidence that its sales
figures have been looking up in recent
months as dealers have been energetic-
ally cleaning out their HD stocks, pre-
sumably at very low margins indeed,
in preparation for the 1966 model.
This meant that Holden’s share of
the motor market fell from a fan-
tastic 40 percent last year to a still
almost unnaturally large level'of 33.6
percent.
Holden was not the only one to
suffer. Volkswagen sales dropped nine
percent and its share of the market fell
away from 8.1 percent to 6.6 percent.
BMC (makers of Austin and Morris)
lost a little in numbers, with sales down
about three percent, which meant that
its share of the smaller total market
actually improved from 11.6 percent to
12.5 percent.
Outright winners amongst the big
five in this struggle for sales were Ford
(up 13 percent), whose share went up
from 14.4 to 18.2 percent, and Chrysler
(up seven percent), improving its share
from 8.6 to 11.3 percent.
Financing the Slump
Less motor business for HP companies
TTTHEN things go badly for the motor
yy trade (as they are now) it is not only
the motor manufacturers, parts
makers, and vehicle distributors who get
hurt. The hire-purchase industry still does
most of its business in motor cars,
In spite of progressive diversification
into newer avenues of industrial lending
or leasing operations, around 80 percent
0 f their business is written on motor
vehicles, roughly half-and-half between
new and used vehicles,
But w ] iere th e tougher times for motors
do not hit each of the five major car
makers with the same force (two have
even recorded solid sales improvements so
far - n 1955.55 against the industry’s 10
percent sales downturn), it means that
different companies in the industries asso-
ciated with the motor trade have different
ta i es tQ te p
et . , ,
00 it it is wrong to write down shares
~ . ~ . .? . , ~.
in all motor distributors when those that
U an( f Ford should be doing
.>, , &
quite nicely and it the same goes tor parts
the y n it u „ true B for the £ ire .
.. n 1
P ur A C , h , ase “mpanres.
Although the larger public company
hire-purchase financiers all do business
over the full range of motor vehicles and
(with one significant exception) do not
admit to anv heavy reliance on any one
make over another, the fact remains that
the current strength in Ford and Chrysler
sales and the weakness in Holden and
Volkswagen has affected different h.p.
companies in different ways.
Probably the most significant factor in
the fall in Holden’s proportion of the
market is that it means Australian finance
companies will be getting a bigger slice
of the cake—even though the cake is
smaller. For GM-H has its own hire-pur-
chase associate, General Motors Accept-
ance Corporation, owned by its overseas
parent company, and it would presumably
have felt the brunt of the Holden down-
turn.
No other finance company here admits
that Holden dominates its business. But
there seems little doubt that each would
feel some impact of lower Holden sales,
even if this has not been as sharp as
would follow a fall in sales by a maker
that did not have an h.p. associate.
The same sort of situation could de-
velop for Chrysler, which has been bring-
ing good business to companies like AGC,
lAC, and Associated Securities, while its
main dealers, like Harden and Johnston,
were spreading the finance business
around the market. But these financiers do
stand to lose something now that Chrysler
has started up its own finance offshoot
last month to take advantage of the
increasing amount of Chrysler business
available.
BMC and Volkswagen business leans
perhaps more to lAC than other finan-
ciers. Thus lAC may have had a lean
time of late in this field, but it has been
doing quite a lot of Chrysler business,
which may have offset the downturn in
activities of these two makes, at least in
part.
AGC is probably doing best of anyone
out of the changing situation in the motor
trade. AGC must be profiting from its
close ties with Ford. An AGC subsidiary,
Traders Finance Corporation, was formed
especially to handle Ford business. Pur-
chasers of Ford vehicles who are uncom-
mitted to a particular financier are
channelled to TFC.
Ford has around 17.7 percent of the
current new car market, but AGC’s new
car financing is more like 25 percent
Ford. Ford is a very valuable account,
but AGC’s management hastened to point
out that its business was well spread, in
New Zealand, New Guinea, Malaysia, and
other fields besides motor hire-purchase.
Of the 4300 increase in Ford registra-
tions so far this financial year, maybe 40
percent would be sold on terms, of which
AGC takes the lion’s share. This does not
represent a large part in AGC’s business
overall, but it certainly adds to the profits
in a handy way.
These good tidings for AGC have come
at a time when its major shareholder,
the Bank of New South Wales, has been


increasing its shareholding in its h.p. asso-
ciate from 40 percent to 43 percent by
buying an additional 1.2 million 50 cent
shares.
Primarily financing GM-H, Ford, BMC,
and Chrysler, plus the Japanese Prince
and Datsun new vehicles, General Credits
asserts that it has done better than the
average hire-purchase financier through
the period of lower registrations because
it does not have as big a proportion of
Holden business as the rest.
Alliance Holdings does most of its
motor vehicle financing with dealers for
GM-H, Chrysler, and BMC, and to a
lesser extent with Ford. It handles hardly
any VW purchases. The company reports
that its motor business has not fallen off
lately to any great extent.
CAGA has no close associations with
any one make. Mutual Acceptance covers
the range, and admitted to some recent
loss of business. Custom Credit, handling
all makes, said business had not declined
significantly even though new and used
car sales were lower. Its mortgage business,
land and home improvement financing
kept it busy.
Associated Securities has no particular
factory attachments, but if anything prefers
to finance Fords and Holdens. Its manage-
ment says it is not prepared to chase
motor vehicle business to uneconomic
“Is this him?”
limits, and although vehicle financing is
still and will always be the major part of
its business it is happy with its diversi-
fications into leasing, bridging finance for
construction projects, land subdivision, and
so on.
Generally speaking, it appears that the
customer very often makes his own choice
of hire-purchase financier regardless of any
affiliations between dealers and a par-
ticular financier. And even where accre-
ditations are held, these are far from ex-
clusive and are often ignored if the dealer
and his customer can get good local ser-
vice from another financier.
What Happened to Holden?
RARELY had there been so much
public interest in a new model car,
and few, if ever, had been so stared
at and criticised. Yet in the short space
of fourteen months, disillusion in the HD
Holden is complete. Now General Motors-
Holden is in the process of releasing
the HD’s successor.
It was a lot different on February 18,
1965, when the HD came on the market.
“Inexperienced drivers will find the X 2
Holden frightening on the open highway.
The car accelerates like a rocket and will
cruise all day at 90 m.p.h. without using
full throttle.” So spoke one of the metro-
politan dailies. There was critical comment
to be sure, mostly about the need for disc
brakes to cope with the extra perform-
ance (these were added a short time
later); the sharp, projecting front-end
styling was said to be against the interests
of safety and expensive to repair. But
most of the experts were favorably
enough impressed.
This was the model which represented
for General Motors-Holden’s Pty. Ltd.,
Australia’s largest vehicle manufacturer,
something of a breakthrough.
The first all-new car in a range which
stretched back to 1949, one which was
to be ahead of its competitors in mechani-
cal innovation, performance, and styling.
In so far as a mass-produced car could,
it introduced to Australians what are still
novel features on the world’s big markets:
high power-to-weight ratio, curved glass in
all windows, disc brakes, and interior fit-
dngs of “modern automotive,” equivalent,
perhaps, to Scandinavian in home furnish-
ings. As cars go, although this is of neces-
sity a subjective judgment, the HD
appeared to be mechanically and, in per-
formance, superior to its main rival, the
Falcon. In its more luxurious and powerful
X 2 form, maybe it was superior to the
Valiant.
Even with the foresight of an industry
downturn ahead, something tipped by a
few experts at that time, it seemed reason-
able to expect the HD to maintain its
share of the market, perhaps to run up
sales where other makes failed. And for
the first month things went very well
indeed. During March, 1965, the HD
had 33.7 percent, of the market for cars,
equal to Holden’s best-ever month,
December, 1963. Yet in the months which
followed, the HD’s share of the market
first eroded, slipped, then slumped,
Then the shakeout began. During the
last half of 1965 Holden dealers had corn-
plained bitterly about the future in their
company reports. By January, Holden’s
top Melbourne dealer, B. S. (“Bib”) Still-
well, quit for Falcon and the first rumor
was out that the HD was slated for
replacement.
Nowadays, few people are enthusiastic
about Holden prospects. Chrysler is the
fashionable comer, already with a sale-
able product in Valiant and due to open
its own hire-purchase affiliate, Chrysler
Credit Australia Ltd. Even Ford, which
had some early problems with its Falcon,,
is confident enough it has consolidated its
position and has used the visit of its
president, Mr. Arjay R. Miller, to make
hopeful noises. Financial writers have
been predicting a bleak future for those
who are still Holden dealers. “Only over-
all growth of the industry itself will ulti-
mately bring back the big revenues of
the 19505,” said one. “But this will take
time and profit margins will be lower.”
In the fallout from the HD fizzle,
reputations have suffered. Perhaps it was
inevitable, so long as G.M.-H. was at the
top, that it had an aura of invincibility.
But 1965 showed its grey flannel-suited
executives as grey flannel-suited executives.
Why did the HD fail? Some of the
reasons put up are: that the HD’s
slump was due in part to general dis-
satisfaction with G.M.-H.’s high profits,
that there were too many Holdens around
at the time for the public to get excited
about another one, that the HD was just
not good enough. But probably the real
reason is that the pace-setting role of per-
formance which gained Holden its posi-
tion of strength on the Australian market
in the 1950 s is dead.
For 15 years, as its rivals dithered
around, Holden was the automatic choice
for a motorist who wanted reasonable six-
cylinder power, reasonable fuel consump-
tion, reasonable comfort, good Australia-
wide service, and spares, and all at a
reasonable price particularly when
compared with the cost of rival four-
cylinder cars. It was not until Ford came
out a few years ago with a similar sort
of car that Holden even had a direct
rival. When Chrysler started making the
Valiant in serious numbers, the battle was
really joined on terms that Holden had
never been forced to face before.
Where once Holden had no direct com-
petition across all its main selling features,
it now has two rivals that have built up
to major proportions with the Japanese
nibbling away at the sides and promising
to take a big bite after AMI begins
assembling the Toyota Crown 6 later this
year. The Bellett may also get local
assembly, and this month a new Nissan
Cedric 6 comes on sale. Nowadays,
the Holden is just another car (and a
good one that is still selling in very large
numbers), battling for its share of the
market; a share that can never hope to
return to the dizzy heights of the times
when General Motors-Holdens sold more
vehicles than all its rivals put together.
Its competitors could never be so silly
as to let that happen again.


MARKET POINTERS
Intuition or Research?
WILD CAT
PAGES
By JASON
HIGH on my list of the least attractive investments in the packaging industry would
be National Bag. Not even the unusual unanimity of our security analyst and our
chartist (on pages 72 and 73 of this issue) can change my view that each of the
other stocks listed in their survey would be a better buy than National Bag.
The dramatic changes taking place in
this industry and not simply through
minimum price agreements are enough
to make this group of stocks far more
interesting and dynamic than any analysis
of their recent history in the market place
or in their accounts would suggest.
True, investors might regard all the talk
of takeovers in this industry as being
another example of crying wolf once too
often but National Bag itself is prob-
ably the greatest example of that on the
share lists. Despite this, there will be
takeovers, and the local subsidiary of the
British Reed Paper group is clearly the one
to watch. Whether it waits until after it
consolidates all the Reed interests in Aus-
tralia (like Spicers) into the local listed
company, or takes advantage of the cur-
rent high returns available because of low
share prices and strikes now, has yet to be
seen.
The attractions of J. Fielding are clearly
that it is not only good takeover bait
(although its huge investment portfolio
probably includes some quite bad stuff
along with the good), but the company is
also understood to have been doing a lot
better lately in packaging.
Another takeover candidate (once
again) is Fibre Containers after its last
report, and no doubt it has been looked
at very closely. Probably the most appeal-
ling of all, however, is Queensland Can,
which has the disadvantage of being
heavily dependent on its home State,
where business would not have been so
wonderful, but which has the other ad-
vantage of being well spread around Aus-
tralia in both tin and fibre containers.
Dodge Consolidated seems to have lost a
little of its liveliness since coming into the
British Tobacco fold, which is probably
natural when an energetic independent
manager, with an eye for a quick deal,
suddenly finds himself having to get things
approved from “on high.” But this stock
is clearly worth more than current prices.
No investor should leave this industry
without looking at ACI, which has taken
on a new significance in packaging after
the link with the big St. Regis Paper Co.
of the U.S.
But the experts do not agree with me.
In six months’ time it will be interesting
to see whether my intuition or their
research is proved right.
IF Macßobertson’s $l.OO shares come
much lower than $1.25, and they no
doubt will, they should prove excellent
buying for the long term. The chocolate
and confectionery manufacturer is fighting
a losing battle at the moment with rising-
costs. Next year it will be facing the
formidable 18-month task of transferring
from its old premises at Fitzroy to the
new at Ringwood. This will involve sub-
stantial cost increases while the two centres
are operating. Although the ultimate
benefits will be high, the interim period
promises to provide a severe headache,
particularly as the company has sold large
shareholdings in other companies (such
as Jaffa, Life Savers, Maize Products,
and Macßobertson Miller) which had
provided about $125,000 a year in tax-free
income to help meet the cost of the new
factory.
All this is happening at a time when
business is not too good. Sales have
already been reported lower in the first
two months of the current year and com-
petition appears to be very keen. In the
12 months to December 31 profit came
back from $531,000 to $388,000, despite
slightly higher sales. Higher costs of
everything from labor to materials were
blamed, despite the sharp fall in cocoa
prices. Earning rate was 8.4 percent, pro-
viding extremely narrow cover for the
8 percent dividend. If profits continue to
decline, and this seems extremely likely
until all operations are running smoothly
in the new factory, an interim or final
payout could be omitted.
That may be the time to buy, for there
is little likelihood of the group striking
really permanent trouble. The new factory
will be one of the most modern in the
world, highly automated, and backed by
the company’s own computer set-up. Costs
will be at a minimum once the transfer
is complete. Little borrowing has been
necessary for the project because of several
assets which the company has been selling-
off. Certain interim loans have been taken
up (one a $2 million mortgage which will
add to costs) to tide the group over until
the valuable Fitzroy premises are cleared
and put up for sale. Macßobertson’s may
look to have bitten off more than it can
chew in its big expansion, but it should
pay off eventually.
MANY will consider it ominous that
last week’s report from Factors on
the interim results of its subsidiary,
Holeproof N.Z., made no mention of the
parent company’s efforts to sell the sub-
sidiary. One would have thought some
comment appropriate as, only ten days
before, chairman Stanley Korman had
informed shareholders that negotiations
were under way and they would be ad-
vised of progress in due course.
Factors has made many attempts to sell
Holeproof N.Z. not all of which share-
holders have been told of but each
has proved a false alarm. The lack of
any comment in last week’s report could
justifiably lead to thoughts that the latest
negotiations will, or have, fallen through
also.
One of the big barriers to a successful
sale is the existence of an agreement under
which Mr. Korman and his brother Hilel
collect ten percent of pre-tax profits every
year. It is believed that Factors is trying
to sell Holeproof N.Z. and still retain
this annual crop for the Kormans. This
would appear to be confirmed by the fact
that Hilel is a director of the company
which is supposed to be the interested
buyer of Holeproof N.Z.
DESPITE problems facing two neigh-
boring tin-mining companies on the
Atherton Tablelands, in Queensland,
Loloma Mining Corp. N.L. and Tableland
Tin Dredging N.L., the third listed com-
pany operating in the area, Ravenshoe Tin
Dredging, is doing quite nicely.
Loloma began alluvial mining opera-
tions at Stannary Hills in August, 1965.
Although early mechanical difficulties
seem to have been overcome, directors
report that maintenance activity and
associated costs are greater than origin-
ally anticipated, and, significantly, that
the overall return of concentrates extracted
is not as high as the original estimate of
1.51 b. per cubic yard.
In addition, the decision to erect a
second alluvial treatment plant has been
deferred until present testing and appraisal
activities are further advanced. However,
the company is currently testing other
prospects in the Herberton area and has
been granted a new area at Lancewood.
It also has a large investment portfolio
with a market value of over $5 million
at last balance date. In their recent half-
yearly report to December, directors report
“fractionally higher” income from invest-
ments and indicate that market value of
the portfolio is higher due to higher
market prices of base metal and mining
stocks held.
The latest production report from
Tableland Tin, giving a substantially re-
duced tin concentrate output from in-
creased yardage, indicates that the com-
pany has completed dredging of the rich-
est section of the Finches area, which last
year yielded 12.10 z. tin concentrate per
cubic yard as against B.lBoz. for the
previous year. Proven ore reserves in 1965
were estimated at an average grade of
soz. per cubic yard. On current extraction
rates, the life of proven reserves is five
years, indicating a declining rate of out-
put should no reserves of higher grades
be discovered.
In contrast, Ravenshoe is currently
dredging in the richer upstream section at


Dear
Julius Marlow:
It’s time you met
Robert Dacey
You didn't make a penny out of these shoes. Make sure of the next pair.
How do you like these shoes? They
weren’t bought from you,
unfortunately.
Robert Dacey is newly married and a
businessman; and like a vast number
of his kind, is quite aware that a
good appearance and a pair of
well-shod feet can take a man further
and faster on the road to success.
Altogether, there are 114-million men
in the Sydney and Melbourne
viewing areas, and they spend about
$12,000,000 a year just on shoes.
That’s a lot of shoes by anybody’s
standards. How are you doing out of it?
Like to do better? Then, here’s a tip.
The two “Nines” put your name
before the largest captive audience
in Australia . . . seven nights a
week. And they’re all potential
buyers—wide open to the potent
selling skills of the two “Nines,”
which are always at your service.
Interested?
I
m
m
mm\v
,\ln\VvVi\
m
iV\W
W\V®
i i, V;
lilt i
\
*i: i\\U
mmm
Channel
TCN-9 SALES—Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street. 61-9931 •
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.
GTV-9 SALES—Melbourne: 22 Bendigo Street. 42-0201 • Sydney: 54 Park
Street. 61-9931.
8521
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE


iptitillil®
1111 111 51 llllil 11 mi
INVEST IN
Associated
Securities
Limited
INTEREST P.A. UP TO
7
1
For
Debenture Stock
(6 year term)
For
Unsecured Notes
(4 year term)
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form
attached to the available from
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
Any Branch of the Bank of New South Wales,
All Branches of Associated Securities Limited.
Brokers:
Ord, Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
224 N
Nettle Creek, where operations com-
menced in November, 1965. Here the aver-
age yield is estimated to be 10.250 z. per
cubic yard. If the current rate of recovery
is maintained, the company should pro-
duce about 500 tons of ore in comparison
with last year’s figure of just under 380
tons, which yielded 265 tons of tin metal.
However, the chairman has warned that
the high recovery rate is not indicative of
future average recoveries which, on proven
reserves, probably average about 6oz. per
cubic yard. Nevertheless, increased profits
in the near future seem assured as produc-
tion rates are being stepped up consider-
ably to a rate of 450 tons of tin metal per
annum by 1970. Proven reserves will only
last about five years at this rate, but ex-
ploration is being carried out to find addi-
tional areas.
BEHIND THE BALANCE-SHEETS
Metters on the Mend
THINGS are not quite as good at
General Industries Ltd. as last
week’s directors’ report and balance-
sheet for 1965 suggests nor quite as bad
as the profit-and-loss account indicates.
The recovery by General Industries
(the Metters group) from its spell in
serious financial trouble has been a fine
one; the balance-sheet shows a return to
real strength, which suggests that even
though next year’s note conversion will
worsen the company’s clear overcapitalisa-
tion, it will not really damage its struc-
ture.
But the profit-and-loss account takes
some of the gloss off it all. It is clear that
profit margins and gross profits both fell
last year and that the buoyant sounding
directors’ report puts on too good a face
altogether. The report says “Notwith-
standing a reduction in housing appropria-
tions, the group’s sales of all major pro-
ducts were a record during the year under
review. The higher volume of sales, to-
gether with the continued applications of
economies in operation, has enabled the
group to achieve a profit higher than all
previous years, despite the continued trend
to a reduction in margins. Trading has
continued at a high level into the current
year.”
The facts are, however, that there was
another reason altogether for the com-
pany’s record profit in 1965; its deprecia-
tion charge fell by $159,734 and its tax
bill by $26,276, indicating that the pre-
tax pre-depreciation profit actually fell by
$68,850, despite the reported $56,000 rise
in net profit.
There are good reasons for the lower
depreciation charge; over the past four
years it has been unnaturally large, as the
company has written down as much as
possible, particularly in the outdated
sections of the Alexandria plant which
have now been sold. The 1965 level of
around $660,000 is regarded by directors
as “indicative” of the likely normal depre-
ciation rate from now on.
But the lower gross earnings position
should not cast any doubts on the com-
pany’s ability to meet its 6 percent dividend
rate after the $2.2 million 1967 notes con-
vert. The company has been paying
$165,000 a year interest on the notes and
will face a dividend bill of only $132,000
on them after tax, equal to about $220,000
before it unless the company’s tax losses
give it exemption for as long as that. It
seems likely, however, that the greater
part of the tax losses may be used up by
the end of this year.
If last year’s earnings can be maintained
there is enough scope to cover this divid-
end, even when tax is paid at the full
rate. The latest accounts showed a net
profit of $1 million and dividends of
$540,000; if full tax had been paid and
the notes had been converted, net profit
would have been about $720,000 and
dividends about $670,000. This leaves little
room for manoeuvre and it will be im-
portant for General Industries to get some
returns soon from its extensive investment
in its new British subsidiary and from
last year’s 50 percent interest (costing
$200,000) in Iplex Plastics, of Adelaide.
The importance of the British com-
pany, to produce domestic heating ele-
ments, is suggested by the purchase of an
additional $850,000 worth of new plant
during the year.
Other major moves in the accounts
indicate things on the mend. The trans-
fer of $300,000 from the provision for
contingencies into capital reserve sug-
gests that the unused Alexandria property
was sold at least at book value during the
year, so removing the need for this part
of the contingency reserve, which still
stands at a cautious $485,210.
Two figures that look good are the fall
of about $200,000 in stocks, despite the
record turnover, and the handsome pro-
vision for bad debts that equals 8 percent
of debtors. And it is cheering to see
General Industries putting aside $90,000 as
additional provision for tax in future years
on top of last year’s $60,000.
Year to February 28 December 31
196 3 1 9 64 1 9 64 1965
Gross profit 1, s'oo 0 1108 1188 18 27 1696
Tax s'ooo 108 94 63 36
Depreciation s'oo 0 75 1 75 9 82 2 662
Net profit s'ooo 249 335 942 998
Earnings p.c.
to ord cap. 2.1 3 2 11.4 12.1
Dividend p.c. 2V 2 5 1
Earnings p.c.
to total funds 15 21 58 62
Current ratio 1.54 1.59 1 83 1 80
. Fixed assets s'o 0 0 11,940 11,70 0 1 0,674 1 0,877
Dividend yield 5.0 8.5 10.2
Frice/earriings
ratio 2 25 0 15 6 5.2 4.9
Share prices, high 3 145 124 145 123
Share prices, low 3 80 85 88 95
1. Profit before tax and depreciation.
2. End of month in which accounts presented.
3. For year in which amounts are presented '(i.®'
1963, 1964, 1965, and 1966 repectiveiy).
Economic Forum
THE eighth autumn forum of the Vic-
torian Branch of the Economic
Society of Australia and New
Zealand, to be held on May 4-6 at Scotch
College, Melbourne, will be on the subject
of “Charting the Future for Australian
Business.” The forum will deal with
questions of long-term planning of busi-
ness and the growth of the economy'


mi
i 4 w*y Vw*y vmmv v*f»y v
■ iu , ■
W}
•♦at.*:
vK*V vWy \>k/ \MUy \vD7 y4^
ANSETT
TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
$2,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
«' i’„
10 YEARS
7 YEARS 5 YEARS
UNDERWRITERS
• lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
• AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LTD.
Applications can be accepted
only on the printed form attached to the
Prospectus, which can be obtained from
any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or any office of Ansett
Transport Industries Ltd. or its subsidiaries,
or from any branch of the English,
Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd. or
the Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
or the Joint Underwriters,
lan Potter & Co. (Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne), 44 Hunter
Street, SYDNEY, Alinga Street,
CANBERRA. A.C.T.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
Ansett Transport Industries Ltd.
489 Swanston Street, Melbourne. C.l
(P.O. Box 1629 M) Phone 34-0401
Please send me a copy of your Bi%
Prospectus
Name
Address
State
V2391/I6N/R1
MINING
Double Boon from Nickel
REPORTS on the two nickel de-
posits recently discovered in Aus-
tralia are getting better all the time.
They could prove a boon not only to
the balance of payments (at present
virtually all Australia’s $l2 million nickel
requirements are imported from New
Caledonia) but also to shareholders in
Western Mining Corporation Ltd.
Late in February Western Mining Cor-
poration reported that it had intersected
significant nickel showings during explora-
tory drilling in the Kambalda region,
about 30 miles south of Kalgoorlie, in
Western Australia. Now the group has
announced startling assay results and the
possibility of establishing a nickel smelt-
ing industry based on these deposits.
Unlike less extensive mining groups, the
company does not make a habit of giving
shareholders unimportant drilling infor-
mation, except in scheduled reports.
Hence it was a fair bet that the innocuous
February report would be followed up
by something more significant; such has
proved to be the case.
The company has announced the possi-
bility of a smelting industry. In less con-
servative terms this means an industry
will almost certainly be established. Assays
from the ore bodies of ten different holes
have revealed nickel contents of between
1.79 and 8.30 percent from widths of
between three to 16.3 feet. Mines in other
parts of the world operate profitably on
as little as one percent nickel, so the
economics of Kambalda appear highly
favorable provided sufficient reserves are
established, despite the high costs which
will result from the region’s relative re-
moteness.
The discovery has been timed nicely.
WMC’s gold returns are currently on
the wane and Australia is virtually
deficient in nickel, a metal used widely
in industry as well as in the new decimal
coinage.
The Blackstone Range area, 900 miles
north-east of Perth, is also being test
drilled for nickel by South Western
Mining Ltd., a company jointly owned
by Nickel Mines of Australia N.L. and
a subsidiary of International Nickel Co.,
of Canada. Although no assay figures are
available, this company is examining the
feasibility of establishing a nickel smelter
and other facilities costing $lOO million,
possibly utilising natural gas from
Mereenie, 230 miles away.
Iron Ore
MAY will see another milestone in the
history of Australian iron ore de-
velopment with the first shipments
of 15,000 tons of iron ore to Japan by
Mount Goldsworthy Mining Associates
[owned equally by Consolidated Gold
Fields (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Cyprus Mines
Corporation, and Utah Construction
Mining Co.]. This marks the start of its
seven-year contract for 16.5 million tons
of ore valued at about $144 million.
Shipment was to have begun in late
April, but damage caused by Cyclone
Shirley has put back the dredging program
at Port Hedland, and the arrival of 30,000
ton carriers will be delayed some further
weeks.
Mount Goldsworthy Mining Associates
is the second group to begin exporting
iron ore, the first being the smaller
Western Mining Corporation joint venture
(Western Mining Corporation in associa-
tion with the U.S. Hanna and Homestake
mining companies), which commenced
shipments in late March under contract
for 5.1 million tons of ore with an approxi-
mate value of $3B million.
May will also see the expiry of the
deadline set by the Western Australian
Government for the presentation of de-
velopment proposals by the Mount New-
man Iron Ore Co. Ltd., in which CSR
holds a 50 percent interest.


AUSTRALIAN
VOLUNTEERS
ABROAD-
Vacancies for Teachers,
Graduates, Tradesmen,
Nurses in Asia, Africa,
New Guinea and Pacific
Islands.
One- and two-year terms.
Small allowances, insur-
ance and fares provided.
Apply now to Australian Volunteers Abroad,
at the following addresses:-
VIC. —124 Jolimont Rd., East Melbourne (63-8496).
N.S.W. C/- Room 1, 4th Floor, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(28-7155)
S.A. C/- Community Aid Abroad, 5A Gay's Arcade Balcony,
Adelaide.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
National Bag Favored
Which fibre container stock to buy
MY inclination at this stage is to regard the market assessment as correct for the
ranking of Reed Paper Products, Fibre Containers, and J. Fielding, but, in ranking
the five companies, I would place National Bag first and Dodge Consolidated
second. National Bag must surely have some speculative interest in view of Fibre Con-
tainers’ earlier bid and Australian Consolidated Industries’ acquisition of F. W. Williams’
holding in St. Regis-Williams, also a paper-sack manufacturer.
Over the past few weeks, I have re-
viewed five companies, four of which
are better known companies engaged
in the production of fibre containers. As
at the time of writing this summary
article, their share prices and dividend
yields are as follows:
Dividend
Cents
1966 Range Last per Yield
Company High Low Sale share %
Fibre Containers 1.40 1.23 1.30 6 4.6
Reed Paper Products . 1.74 1.58 1.61 7 4.3
J. Fielding 3.72 3.43 3.50 17.5 5 0
National Bag Co. ... 1.93 1.60 1.64 6 3.7
Dodge Consolidated .. 2.10 1.58 1.75 9+ 5.1
(+ On the basis of the interim dividend for four
months)
Since I wrote about the companies
individually, only two have suffered any
variation in the share price. J. Fielding
has fallen five cents, although a rise seemed
more in prospect at the time, and Dodge
Consolidated has risen 15 cents, which was
justified because the shares seemed low at
$1.60. It is rather surprising that the
shares of Fibre Containers have remained
at the same level after a 20 percent reduc-
tion in the dividend and I must assume
that the fall had been anticipated, although
not by me.
All the five companies have now re-
ported on the first half of their current
financial year, with the exception that
Dodge Consolidated (whose balance date
has now been changed to coincide with
that of its parent company, British
Tobacco) has reported for only the four
months to the end of October, 1965. Only
National Bag gave any figures in the half-
yearly report and these indicate that earn-
ings increased by less than one percent,
although net profit before tax and depre-
ciation increased by about nine percent.
Dodge Consolidated announced higher
sales and profits for the four months. J.
Fielding’s group turnover and profits “were
maintained and compared favorably”
with the corresponding period of
the previous financial year. Reed
Paper Products announced higher sales
and “profitability, although still affected
by depressed selling prices in certain sectors,
continued to be satisfactory.” Fibre Con-
tainers, reporting in rather more detail,
said that, while sales of corrugated con-
tainers were “satisfactory,” sales of solid
fibre containers were down 20 percent
mainly due to the drought, and profits
declined as a result of lower sales plus
“keen competition and low prices.”
There can be little doubt that there
has been severe competition in the solid
fibre section of the container industry and
we have already noted that National Bag,
which is not involved in this section, seems
to have a better profit record than the
others. Also it is equally clear that the
market places a rather higher value on
National Bag’s shares in terms of dividend
yields. Quite recently, there is more
evidence that the fibre container manu-
facturers have become concerned at the
price-cutting which has been going on
and which seems to have produced un-
attractive profit results, even though the
market seems to have been growing quite
rapidly and most companies have been
getting increased sales volume. The Vic-
torian branch of the newly named Aus-
tralian Fibre Board Container Manufac-
turers’ Association has announced price
increases, the first since 1954-55, and it is
believed that there will be similar price
increases in other States. It will be
interesting to see the outcome, particularly
as four of the five companies reviewed
are domiciled in New South Wales and the
fifth is National Bag. Of course, there
are other substantial fibre container manu-
facturers, such as Australian Consolidated
Industries with five factories throughout
Australia producing fibre containers. The
metal container manufacturers also have
interests in the fibre container
field, particularly Quensland Can,
which is a major fibre container-
maker. Clearly, complete rationalisation
of the industry will be difficult to achieve.
To compare the results of these com-
panies over the past five years, I will
start with the only investment ratio which
is a matter of unquestionable fact—divi-
dends per share—and where the adjust-
ments which are normally made these
days for cash and bonus issues
are quite logical. The 1966 figures are
based on the interim rate (despite the
exhortation of the directors of Dodge
Consolidated that the interim dividend
declared by them should not be taken as
an indication of the likely future annual
rate).
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE, CENTS
Year ended in 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Fibre Containers 4 4 6.2 7.0 7.5 7 5 6.0
Reed Paper 6.6 6.6 6.6 6.8 7.0 7.0
J. Fielding 17.5 17.5 17.5 17.5 17.5 17.5
National Bag 5 0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5 5 6.0
Dodge Consolidated . 6 0 6.0 7.0 8.3 8.3 9.0
The trends become a little clearer when
the figures take the form of an index,
starting with 1961 equals 100:
Fibre Containers .. 100 141 159 170 170 136
Reed Paper 100 100 100 104 125 125
J. Fielding 100 100 100 100 100 100
National Bag 100 100 100 100 110 120
Dodge Consolidated 100 100 117 139 139 150
These figures indicate that only Dodge
Consolidated has a really worthwhile
record of dividend increases, for I must
rule out Fibre Containers which, after
a good rise, now looks like reducing its
dividend rate this year.
To compare earnings per share is
rather more difficult because, not only
must adjustments be made which may not
necessarily be valid but, in the case of J.
Fielding, figures for 1961 are not avail-
able. The index figures for the five com-
panies, from 1962 equals 100, are as
follows:
EARNINGS PER SHARE INDEX
Year ended in 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Fibre Containers 105 100 113 88 82
Reed Paper 152 100 117 142 135
J. Fielding n.c. 100 83 91 90
National Bag 102 100 80 104 124
Dodge Consolidated 72 100 93 91 98
These figures indicate that there has
been no trend at all over the past five
years. The very accident of the base year
proves this for, if J. Fielding had pro-
duced comparable figures for 1961, this
year would have been the base year and
the index for Reed Paper and Dodge Con-
solidated would have become:
Year ended in 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Reed Paper 100 66 77 93 39
Dodge Consolidated 100 138 128 126 136
Over the past three years only National
Bag has shown a consistent upward trend
in earnings per share.
In terms of earnings yields, the market
does not seem to have accepted the propo-
sition that the fibre container industry is
now highly competitive, for the average
earnings yield for the four “fibre” com-


panies is 7.4 percent, while the earnings
yield for National Bag is 9.9 percent. So
far as the companies themselves are con-
cerned, the market has ranked them in
the same order for earnings yields as it
has for dividend yields, namely, Reed
Paper Products, Fibre Containers, J.
Fielding, and Dodge Consolidated.
On the face of it, there is little justifica-
tion for any distinction for any differing
ranking for the four companies concerned.
It is rather strange that Fibre Containers
is the only company which has reported
a decline in sales and profits in the first
half and it will be very interesting to see
the results for the full year, particularly
as the Tasmanian subsidiary is now on a
profitable basis.
The Chartist Gives
Some Support
A STUDY of price trends among the
fibre container stocks, ignoring any
other considerations, lends support
to the security analyst’s choice of
National Bag.
Dodge Consolidated moved in an up-
trend and appreciated at a rate of 30 per-
cent per annum from 1961 until the begin-
ning of 1965 and has since moved in a
downward trend. Although some short-
term reaction is possible up to the basic
downtrend line, it is more likely that the
stock will continue to move down to about
the $1.60 level, where further consolidation
could be expected for some time.
Fibre Containers moved in a growth
phase culminating in a top formation in
1964, with resultant sharp down move-
ment which appears to be exhausted at
$1.20. At this stage it would be too early
to assess any upward movement, as a side-
ways movement could continue for some
months. There would be no reason to
buy this stock at present, since a technical
base pattern has not formed and the stock
is still in a downtrend.
J. Fielding: The chart shows an un-
impressive performance over the past six
years. A downtrend has been evident
since 1962, with an annual rate of 12| per-
cent depreciation. As with Fibre Con-
tainers, there is no technical reason to buy
until a base pattern forms and the down-
trend is broken.
National Bag has shown wide fluctua-
tions, with no overall major growth poten-
tial. The stock has emerged from the
1964-65 downtrend and has formed a base
pattern with a projection to approximately
the $2.20 level.
Reed Paper is still in a downtrend and
the possibility exists of a further fall to
a support level of $1.40. No short-term
capital gain could be expected from this
stock for some months.
SUMMARY: The fibre container group
of stocks shows little promise of capital
appreciation at this particular stage, due
to an absence of base consolidation pat-
terns, but the situation could well be
reassessed from the technical point of
view in approximately six months’ time.
National Bag is the only stock at present
where some short-term capital gain might
be expected.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
NEW ISSUE
%
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications tor Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pring Dean & Co.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pill Street. Sydney. Tel. 61-9701. 61-6421
MA23ONSW
COMMODITIES
Tin Near to a “Floor”
Malaysia presses for price increase
THE price of tin, weak for some months, has now reached a level where the “floor”
price question is no longer academic—and where Malaysia is to press for a
solid increase.
For some of the newer Australian pro-
ducers, experiencing unexpected difficulties
with grade-values and metal extraction
from complex ores, further price falls
could assume considerable importance.
The current London Metal Exchange
price is around £stg.l3so a ton, well
above the average for 1963 of £909, but
only about 7 percent higher than the 1964
average of £1240 and well below the
October, 1964, peak of £1715.
But the current price weakness appears
purely a short-term consideration; long-
term the metal is in a chronic state of
underproduction, and the market boom in
1964-65 reflected this. The U.S. Govern-
ment’s sales from surplus stocks, priced
at around prevailing free-market quotes,
have been ample to fill the gap for the
time being.
In the year to March 31, 1966, the
stockpile controller sold 17,000 short tons
(about the same as the production deficit)
out of an authorised quota of 28,000.
This year the shortfall in supply should
decline to about 16,000 tons. The
authorised quota has again been set at
28,000 tons.
However, this short-term outlook is in
contrast to the long-term picture, where
there seems a considerable likelihood that
surplus U.S. stocks will be exhausted
before production catches consumption.
Less than 100,000 tons are at present
declared “surplus” to defence needs, and
it does not seem probable that this will be
added to in the foreseeable future. World
production is only growing slowly, despite
extensive exploration spurred by recent
peak prices.
By the end of this decade the situation
could easily be very difficult unless new
developments on the consumption or pro-
duction sites could upset forecasts.
This background, along with low stocks
in consumers’ hands and unsettled politi-
cal and labor conditions in the main pro-
ducing nations (Malaya, Bolivia, Nigeria,
China, Indonesia, Thailand, and the
Congo), outbalances the immediate supply
position.
On the short-term supply position alone,
there seems little other reason why prices
should not fall to, say, the International
Tin Council’s floor price of £lOOO a ton.
Certainly the U.S. releases “buffer” con-
siderably reduces the likelihood of a rise in
prices.
But other factors, mainly political, may
prevent prices falling so far. For despite
the ITC’s floor, the U.S. release authority
appears to regard £l2OO a ton as a mini-
mum, presumably to avoid disrupting the
economy of tin producing countries. When
the LME market fell to this level early last
year U.S. sales were suspended.
Producer members of the ITC continue
to press for a rise in that body’s floor price
and Malaysia will request a £l2OO level
as soon as practicable, although on past
indications the consumer members will be
difficult to convince.
Strong Synthetics
THE pressure on wool and other natural
fibres from the headlong growth in
synthetics production shows no
sign of easing.
Nylon, the first of the synthetics, has
become also the prototype of the market
cycle of the new materials.
In the past 18 months U.K. nylon prices
fell by around 15 percent as producers
expanded capacity considerably faster
than market growth.
The newer fibres are repeating nylon’s
rapid growth acrylic (“Courtelle,”
“Orion,” etc.) and polyester (“Terylene,”
etc.) only made up a small fraction of
nylon’s market a few years ago, but last
year almost equalled it.
The latest figures show world trade in
synthetic fibres was again buoyant in
1965. Total exports were about 9 percent
higher than in 1964, and 19 percent higher
than in 1963.
Japan’s exports gained most strongly,
with Western European producers also
gaining. The U.S. and India shipped con-
siderably less than in 1964.
In contrast, latest figures for cotton
show a 2 percent fall in world trade in
1965. In the final quarter Indian output
contracted, while in Japan the industry
began organised production cut backs.
Upward for Oil?
THE world oil position continues to
show signs of improving. British
Petroleum’s latest report speaks of
signs that the downward trend in prices
of the past few years may be flattening
out and “an upward trend may be in
sight.”
In 1965 highly competitive conditions
prevailed for operators in the eastern
hemisphere, outside the protected U.S.
market. Low taxes and royalties in Libya
had depressed prices, but this has since
been corrected.
World demand for oil last year grew
108 million tons or 8 percent over the
1964 level, and is about the same as in
recent years, although in Japan usage rose
17 percent.
BP is not worried by nuclear power and
the recent cuts in its cost. “Its full impact
will not be felt for some years, and will
not necessarily be limited to oil and
gas.”
Steel for War
MILITARY requirements are begin-
ning to make their weight felt more
directly in the U.S. primary com-
modities market.
The iron and steel industry in America,
for example, has until recently been little
influenced by the Vietnam war. But the
600,000 short tons of steel now going to
military needs each quarter is 27 percent
of total shipments, double the 1965 rate.
Producers and consumers are beginning
to notice the effects of military buying.


Par
Div.
Year IWeek
Fri.|
1966 |
Turnover
Yield
%
Valuej cents | ago | ago
close
High!
Low |
Syd. |
Melb. [
Div. |Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
. .50
2
1.80
2.10
2.32
1 1.90
8,700
4,500
. .50
1.00
1.00
1
1.15
.85
9,900
4,700
. .50
15
4.00
4.80
5.52
4.80
700
—
. .50
2.58
2.30
2.60
2.25
10,100
2,000
. .50 '
12
2.15
2.46
2.57
2.90
2.24
9,750
16,000
4.9
7.5
C.R.A. ■ ■
. .50
8
3.58
4.40
4.48| 4.65
3.92
7,400
13,400
1.8
4.7
C'wlth. Min.
. 1.00
7 ■
1.73
2.15
2 40
1.90
1,200
1,600
K. 1. Scheel
. . 5C
10
1.33| 2.1C
3 25
1 95
5,300
4,100
. .50
5 ■
3.191 4.25
4.391 4.55| 4.141 14,250
19,500
1.1
1.6
Mt. Morgan
. 1 00
12
1.56| 2 28
2.40
1.90-i 7,700
16,600
Mt. Lyell .
. .25
2
.89
1.45
1.46
1.46
1.26
5,400
20,300
1.7
3.8
New B.H. .
. .50
22
5.92
4.87
5.00
5 28
4.50
2,500'
—
6.1
8.7
Oil Search
. .50
—
.20
.15
.19
.12
1,600
6,100
. .50
10
5.15
7.00
i 7.50
5.90
200
. .25
—4
2.25
2.74
2.85
1.40
10,100
6,700
West. Min.
. .50
10
2.43
2.74
3.04
3.25
2.45
21,550
31,500
3.3
3.6
Woodside ..
. .50
— '
.31
.59
.59
.24
1,980
18,500
INDUSTRIALS
A.R-C. . .
.50
4.25
1.09
1.02| 1.06
1.12
1.00
10,300
57,200
3.9
9.0
1.00
12.5
3.05
2-46
2.45
2.89
2.25
2,700
—
6.1
12.3
Adel Steam
.50
4.25
.73
.70
.701
.80
.641
—
1,100
6.1
7.8
Advertiser . .
.50
5
2.33
2.32| _
2.50
2.18
—
—
—
1.00
10
1.83
1.90
1.93
2.10
1.75
1,000
—
5.2
7.7
Allied Mills
.50
6
1.78
1.69
1.71
1.75
1.67
16,200
3,000
3.5
8.4
Amalg. Chem.
.50
5.51
1.15
.87
.85
1.50
.80
6,100
1,500
6.6
9.9
A.W.A. . . .
.50
8
2.65
2.18
2.18
2.42
2.05
4,000
3,600
3.7
6.6
.50
7
1.01
.90
.89
1.02
.82
25,438
6,500
7.9
9.4
.50
5
.69
.78
.78
.83
.74
40,570
24,700
6.4
12.2
a.p.c.m. . .
.50
5
3.10
1.49
1.50
1.54
1.43
3,800
4,400
3.3
6.4
1.00
9
1.56
1.55
1.74
1.47
4,500
3,000
5.8
7.0
2.50
30
5 05
6.20| 6.23
6.23
5.65
200
3,000
2.8
5.4
AjK. Cement .
.50
5
1 35
1.27
1.29
1.62
1.20
24,850
. 9,700
3.9
7.6
Aust. Chem. .
1.00
10
2.65
1.91
1.88
2.55
1.88
5,300
—
5.3
7.4
A.C 1. • •
2.00
20
5.30
5.76
5 86
6.02
5 40
9,025
14,450
3.4
6.6
2.00
20
5.10
5 02
5.00
5.02
4 10
1,525
250
3.2
5.7
a.g.c. . . .
.50
7.5
1.51
1.35
1.40
1.41
1.22
47,216
2,000
5.4
10.0
A.P.M. . . .
1.00
8.75
1.53
1.69
1.72
1.87
1.65
12,650
15,500
5.1
8.4
A. Newsprint .
2 00
20
3.30
3.15
3.45
3.45
3.15
1,200
2,700
6.3
6.9
A U.'C. . . .
1 00
10
5.00
4.00
4.00
4.00
3.75
—
—
2.5
8.1
1 00
10
2.55
2.31
2.31
2.45
2.15
—
—
4.3
7.2
Bank N.S.W.
2.00
20
5.85
5 20
5.24
5.68
5.02
7,900
1,100
3.8
7.3
.50
5
1.70
2 25
2.30
2.44
2.00
1,000
—
2.2
7.3
Berlei
1.00
15
2.73
3.20
3.20
3.30
2.00
1,200
—
4.7
10.1
B.M.I. . .
.50
7.5
1.67
1.67
1.68
1.87
1.65
30,050
1,200
4.5
6.6
.50
5
1.07
1 07
1.15
1.15
.98
3,900
—
4.3
8.9
.50
10
2 50
2.15
2 18
2.40
2.10
18,500
5,600
4.6
6.2
Borg Warner .
1.00
6
1.30
1.90
1.85,
2.05
1.80
1,100
—
3.2
8.0
B.C.H. . . .
.50
.10
0.08
.07
.10
.07
60,600
38,900
—
16.4
.50
5
.72
.58
.60
.69
.56
5,200
3,500
8.3
11.7
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.78
1 75
1.74
1.80
1.67
8,350
7,000
4.3
7.4
Brit Tobacco
1.00
11
1.63
1.90
1.95
1.99
1.77
9,482
12,000
5.6
9.2
B.H.P. . . .
2.00
20.4
5.20
5.46
5.58
5.62
4.54
92,584
45,050
3.3
6.1
Bruck Mi.ls. .
50
5
.50
.65
.67
.73
.55
2,500
2,400
9.3
12.7
Burns Philp
1.00
10
4.05
3.80
3.77
4.10
3.65
2,600
300
2.7
7.0
C.U.B. “Z"
1.00
15
3.85
3.60
3.6t
| 3.8!
1 3 61
1 1.10C
1 2.75C
3.6
6.3
Carp., W.R
.50
7.5
2 48
2 62
2.65
2.75
2 50
20,568
2,700
2.8
5.8
Carrier Air
.50
4
.64
.70
.70
.80
.60
3,200
3,400
5.7
11.4
C’maine Perk
1.00
17
6 00
6 08
5.93
6.40
5.93
800
—
2.9
5.3
Chamberlain
.50
6.25
1.90
1.20
—
1.38
1.23
—
1,000
—
—
Clyde Ind. . .
.50
7.5
1.09
1.04
1.05
1.10
1.03
7,750
2,300
7.1
11.2
.50
5
.83
1.38
1.37
1.45
1.26
16,000
4,000
3.6
10.1
Coles, G. J.
.50
5.5
1.46
1.26
1.26
1.41
1.20
31,650
27,000
4.4
6.6
C.S.R.
1.00
12.5
3.18
2.86
2.84
3.26
2.80
25,065
14,400
4.4
8,6
C.A.G.A. . .
1.00
10
.88
1.36
1.35
1.65
1.33
4,796
600
7.4
11.9
C.B.C.
1.00
10
2.53
2.30
2.44
2.44
2.15
6,350
3,100
4.1
7.1
C.B.A. . . .
1.00
10
2.30
2.07
2.18
2.22
2.02
3,650
500
4.6
6.5
Com. Union
.50
4.25
1.50
1.30
1.30
1.44
1.30
1,100
1,100
3.3
4.8
C.I.G. . . .
1.00
11
2.33
2 83
2.80
3.32
2.55
2,850
9,300
3.9
1.0
Concrete Ind
.50
.55
.33
.33
.48
.26
35,800
5,500
11.4
13.6
Consol Press .
.50
6.25
3.50
2.75
2.75
3.40
2./5
700
—
3.6
7.2
Containers . .
2.00
16
2.80
2.68
2.68
2.75
2.58
700
16,650
6.0
9.7
Courtaulds . .
1.00
5
85
.60
. 61
.75
.60
2,700
800
8.2
11. r
Crane, G.E.
1.00
12.5
3.83
4 30
4.15
4.60
4.20
1,000
—
3.0
8.6
Cresco
2.00
20
5.30
6.40
6.40
6.40
4.90
—
—
3.1
7.1
Cust. Cred. .
.50
5
.71
.75
.76
.79
.63
20,050
42,100
6.6
11.0
Cy:lone . . .
1.00
10
1.60
1.07
1.10
1.48
1.04
700
7,200
9.1
21.6
Daloety . .
2.50
30
5.35
4.60
4.80
5.00
4.60
950
—
5.3
10.0
D.F.C. . . .
2.00
23
6.50
6.20
6.20
6.55
6.20
—
—
3.7
7.6
Drug Hou-.es
1 00
10
1.74
1.69
1.73
1.93
1.58
4,500
3,600
5.8
8.3
Din lap
1.00
8
1.98
1.43
1.42
1.65
1.24
17,150
8,700
5.6
9.3
E.M.I. . . .
.50
7.5
2.15
2.30
2.10
2.15
1.90
200
100
3.6
8.8
E.Z. Ind. . .
1.00
18
2.16
2.15
2.19
2.40
2.12
6,850
18,100
8.2
10.0
ciders, G. M.
1.00
10
2.20
2.05
2.10
2.35
2.01
10,050
3,500
4.8
10.7
Electronic "B"
1.00
10
1.15
.96
.94
1.04
.94
1,900
9,100
10.6
14.3
LONDON COMMODITY
PRICES
Year ago
Month ago
Week ago
This week
Aluminium, ton
Copper, wire bars, ton . .
Gold, ox
Lead, cash, ton
Silver, tray, oz
Tin, cash, ton
Wolfram unit, c.I.f. . . .
Zinc cash, ton
Cocoa, 50 kilos
Rubber, lb
Sugar, ton
Wool Tops, 64'*, lb. . . .
"Financial Times”
Commodity Price Index . .
£ 196
£499
£ 12/11/7
£125%
112d.
£ 1452%
£8%
£113%
122/6
23d.
£ 23
108d.
(All figures
87.78
£ 196
£ 686%
£ 12/11/4%
£ 1073/e
lll%d.
£ 1379%
£ 18%- £ 18%
£ 107%
165/
21 %d.
£21%
118d.
in sterling)
91.60
£ 196
£761%
£ 12/11/6
£ 105 1-16
lll%d.
£ 1384%
£ 15%- £ 16%
£ 102%
195/
20d.
£ 201/e
120d.
92.49
£ 196
£763
£ 12/11/5%
£ 103%
lll%d
£ 1362
£ 151/4- £ 16%
£102
206/9
201/sd.
£ 201/4
120d
1
Share
Par
Div.
Year |Week
Fri.|
close!
1966 1
T urnover
Yield
%
Value
cents
ago | ago |
High|
Low ]
Syd. |
Melb. |
Div. |Earn.
Email ....
.50
3
.74
.42
.40
.511
.39
24,450
2,900
7.5
13.3
E.S.A
2.50
25
4.60
5.56
5-52
5.70]
5.20
600
300
2 7
7.8
Evans Deakin .
.50
6.25
1.25
1.30
1.28
1.40
1.28
750
400
4 9
8.2
Fairfax, J. . .
.50
8.5
2.63
2.38
2.23
2.80
2.23
1,300
300
3.8
5.1
Fairymead . .
1.00
12
2.08
1.72
1.77
2.10
1.70
2,000
—
3 .4
Felt Text. . .
.50
5
.81
.58
.58
.70
.56
10,500
4,400
8.6
12.2
Fibre Cont. .
.50
6
1.73
1.30
1.27
1.40
1.23
100
500
4.7
9.0
Fielding, J. .
1.00
17.5
4.25
3.50
3.501
3.72|
3.43
501
—
5.0
7.2
Gen. Credits
.50
4
.55
.52
.55
.60
.50
3,000
3,700
7.3
9 5
Gen. Ind. .
2.00
12
1.20
1.11
1.20
1.23
.95
9,150
1,550
10.0
20.2
G oil in . . . .
.50
4.5
.88
.75
.71
.88
.71
1,200
1,700
6.3
12.5
Gordon, Gotch
.50
10
2.83
2.35
2 33| 2.70) 2.25
2,300| 3,300
4.31 7.0
Grace Bros. .
.50
6.25
1.73
1.82
1.89
1.90
1.69
4,900
—
3.3
6.2
Hardie, J. . .
1.00
10
5.10
4.85
4.95
5.06
4.50
2,150
200
2.0
6.0
Healing, A. G.
.50
4
.69
.39
.40
.58
.35
60,900
2,600
10.0
21.3
Herald, W. T.
.50
12.5
5.00
4.75
4.78
5 22
4.73
950
10,250
2.6
3.6
Hooker, L. J.
.50
—
.37
.27
.26
.36
.24
17,450
1,800
—
15.2
Humes .
1.00
12.5
3.05
2.55
2.57
2.90
2.50
1,300
2,500
4.9
7.9
Huttons . . .
.50
5
.89
.95
.97 1.00
.94
2,000
500
5.2
10.0
I.A.C
.50
6
.94
.79
.80
.87
.77
8,900
10,900
7.3
12.2
I.C.I.A.N.Z. .
2.00
15
3.00
3.84
4 00
4.32
3 60
7,202
5,300
3.8
5.6
Inter. Resist. .
.50
6.25
1.35
1.19
1.15
1 1.45
| 1 15
200
—
5 4
7.0
Jones, David .
.50
6.75
1.54
1.51
1.49
1,63
1.44
12,550
500
4.5
8.1
Jones, Henry .
1.00
10
3.80
3.65
3.72
4.10
3.50
1,650
1,800
2.7
7.7
Kauri ....
.50
2
.48
.26
.26
.26
.23
1,000
3,600
'
11.7
Kelvinator . .
.50
7.5
2.10
1.94
1.95
2.08
1.92
3,675
—
3.8
8.1
Koitaki . . .
.50
12.5
1.40
1.25
1.25
1.30
1.20
200
—
10.0
12.9
Lend Lease . .
.50
5
.93
1.12
1 14
1.15
1.01
8,700
14,900
4.4
7.9
Life Savers . .
.50
8
2.78
2.49
2.48
2.52
2.24
2,250
400
3.2
4.6
Lysaght, J. . .
1.00
11
2.72
2.23
2.20
2.63
2.15
3,750
1,600
5.0
8.4
M.L.C
2.00
31.10
10.10
8.14
8.10
8.15
7.66
5,425
3,250
3.9
5.6
MacRobertson .
1.00
8
2.05
1.25
1.25
1 55
1.20
—
—
6.4
7.0
Marrickville
.50
7.5
1.40
1.34
1 36
1.55
1.22
11,750
—
5.-5
6.3
.50
5
1.71
1.99
2.01
2.08
1.86
9,000
3,300
2.5
5 3
1.00
12.5
3.28
2.85
2.86
3.20
2.83
100
600
4.4
6.3
.50
7.5
1.71
1.30
1.31
1.50
1.24
3,800
1,300
5.7
10.3
McPhersons
2 00
16.6
4.25
3.70
3.65
4.08
3.40
700
1,800
4.5
10.3
Millaquin
1.00
20
3.63
3.00
3.00
3.18
2.90
100
—
6.7
7.6
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.73
1.96
1.87
2.07
1.87
6,700
1,400
5.3
13.4
Minster
1.00
20
6.30
3.90
3.74
5 68
3.74
1,300
4,200
5.3
11.5
Morris, Philip
2.00
24
5.00
6.75
6.75
7.36
6.20
—
—
3.6
12.4
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
1.47
.62
.67
.80
.61
1,500
7,700
7 5
12.8
Myer .
.50
8.75
3.05
3.30
3.30
3.56
3.10
7,150
18,800
2.7
6.2
Myttons . . .
.50
6
1.56
1.54
1 59
1.58
1.42
5,250
1,700
3.8
8.2
1.25
10
2.96
2.90
2.90
2.90
2.60
1,300
800
2.3
6.0
1.00
10
2.25
2.00
2.00
2.10
1.95
16,900
12,300
5.0
5.3
Nat. Consol. .
.50
10
2.63
2.36
2.38
2.40
2 27
10,800
8,500
4 2
8.1
2.60
103.5
79.00
80.00
77.25
84 00
77.00
—
50
1.4
2.8
.50
5
1.45
1.75
1.65
1.82
1.70
580
4,900
3.0
6.3
1.25
13.4
3.03
2.80
2.80
2 82
2.70
—
—
4.8
6.1
.50
5
.99
.72
.71
80
.70
2,500
18,800
7.0
13.9
1.00
15
4.70
4.20
4.401 4.70! 4.10
800
—
3 4
6.8
.50
5.5
1.10
1.14
1.13
1.16
1 08
23,400
25,700
4.9
10.0
P.G.H. . . .
.50
8
1.82
1.55
1.59
1.58
1.33
1,900
—
5 0
8 4
Peko . . . .
.50
8
1.40
2 02
2.13
2.13
1 85
13,550
7,600
3 5
6.0
Penfolds . . .
.50
6.25
1.45
1.70
1.65
2.03
1.65
800
—
3.8
5-2
2.00
17
3.8C
3.70
3.74
3.80
3.55
200
—
4.5
5.7.
Petersville
.20
2.5
.55
.63
.61
.64
.55
13,250
13,600
4.1
6.0
.50
6.25
1.90
1.75
1.75
1 92
1.74
—
—
3.6
6.5
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6.25
1.51
1.52
1.56
1.56
1.42
26,895
12,300
12
7.6
.50
6.25
1.33
.90
.90
1.05
.90
1,000
1,100
6.9
17.8
.50
5
1.28
1.10
1.14
1.30
1.00
1,600
—
4.4
10.6
.50
5
1.95
1 25
1 25
1.55
1.20
4,300
2°°
4.0
14.3
.50
5
1.15
1.01
1.01
1.13
1.00
—
700
5.0
9.0
Q'land Cement
2.00
20
6.95
7.15
7.12
7.70
7.00
200
—
2 8
1.00
12.5
3.60
4.05
4.10
4.50
4 00
—
—
1.00
16
5.60
5 32
5 20
5.45
5.05
—
600
3.1
5.5
.50
7
2.10
1.61
1 57
1.74
1.58
1,300
—
4.5
7.4
.50
7.5
2.15
1.99
2 07
2.12
1.88
9,250
5,760
3.6
6.1
.50
7
2.18
1.78
1.78
2 14
1.78
—
2,700
3.9
1.00
20
3 53
2.90
2.93
3.15
2.68
5,100
600
6 8
.50
5 62
1.63
1.05
1.05
1.25
1.00
—
—
S.T.P. Hold. .
.50
6.25
.88
.90
.90
1.00
.90
—
—
Schweppes
.60
5.75
1.63
1.65
1.65
1.85
1.65
700
1,200
3.3
8.6
.50
7.5
2.20
2.45
2.45
2.45
2.30
—
—
.50
1
.49
.28
.28
.46
.27
2,000
—
3.6
Sleigh, H. C. .
.50
5
.75
.66
.65
.72
.61
21,925
32,500
7.7
10.6
2.00
24
4.85
4.95
4.95
5.15
4.87
800
250
4.0
1.00
10
3.15
2.98
2.90
3.23
2.72
—
700
4.0
1.25
16.87
3.68
3.70
3.80
3.85
2.06
1,000
—
b.9
.50
6.66
1.19
.98
.96
1.05
.88
13,750
9,900
.50
7.5
1.93
1.70
1.72
1.88
1.65
3,950
—
.50
3.38
2.48
2.38
2.44
2.50
2.21
7,400
9,400
2.7
3.2
.50
6
.90
1.15
1.15
1.22
1.00
—
800
5.2
.50
8
1.44
1.10
1.05
1.18
1.05
10,200
—
7.6
8.4
8.8
TV Corp. . .
1.00
20
3.23
2.40
2 40
2.40
2.08
700
.50
.39
.68
.73
.76
. 66
63,258
—
—
Tooheys . . .
.50
1.00
4.25
15
1.03
4.98
1.19
5.10
1.18
5.12
1.21
5.36
1.10
4.90
29,950
7,250
500
3.0
4.3
Union Carb. .
U.E. Box . .
Walker, F. J. .
1.00
.63
1.00
.50
10
6.3
12.5
6.5
3.14
1.33
1.84
• 1.10
3.25
1.45
1.35
.97
3.30
1.40
1.38
1.03
3.65
1.48
1.63
1.03
3.28
1.40
1.30
.85
2.750
1,300
3.750
25,650
9,700
4.4
9.1
6.1
9.3
9.3
9.7
.50
8
1.30
1.33
1.37
1.37
1.25
300
—
2 8
4.3
11.1
Williams, F. W
Woolworths . .
1.00
.50
10
6
3.20
1.51
3.70
1.19
3.60
1.38
4.00
1.43
3.45
1.30
4,500
41,619
30,300
5.9
SHARE PRICE INDEXES
i
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
_
Classification j
Year
ago
Month
■ago
Week
ago
Friday
last
Year
ago
Month | Week
ago | ago
Friday
last
All ords 1
Banks
Other Fin.
Pastoral
Transport
Retails .
Foods .
Textiles .
Chemicals
Electrical
Building .
Automotive
Non-ferrous
320.58 j
171.24
505.04
236.45
468.36
375.66
164.23
218.72
373.05
537.21
720.97
774.07
951.55
317.68 |
165.84
482.29
215.19
477.42
344.39
167.41
191.64
409.88
444.82
671.39
714.17
1142.05
319.39 |
168.59
485.57
211.08
484.28
343.10
166.07
187.56
337.99
446.47
672.87
731.55
1144.46
323.12 [
171.02
493.43
217.54
484.32
340.80
166.38
189.30
342.92
442.95
685.10
753.48
1172.38
103.60 j
119.13
73.92
114.67
97.26
44.65
103.25
92.59
98.29
82.26
97.65
96.18
153.50
101.84
108.52
68.91
104.53
95.25
45.36
101.88
83.23
82.12
64.99
89.24
80.76
191.08
102.90
110.65
69.29
107.44
97.11
44.67
101.77
78.88
85.29
64.86
90.51
83.30
191.32
103.91
111.78
69.93
108.89
97.02
44.83
101.95
79.25
86.88
64.76
91.36
83.59
195,23
OIL
1
SUGAR
I Jan. 4,
| '66
Month
1 ago
Week
ago
Friday | Jan. 4,
last | ’66
Month 1 |, Week
ago | ago
Friday
last
Melbourne
Brisbane . . . .
90.62
114.94
83.27
102.91
96.80
119.97
96.53
122.01
122.77
3*29.05
125.62
125.35
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
1
SYDNEY
•1
MELBOURNE
INDUSTRIAL]
MINING 11 N D U ST R ! A L | MINING
Sales 1 Value | Sales | Value | Sales | Value 1 Sales | Value
Vol. 1 $ Vol. | $ | Vol. | $ | Vol. | $
1000 1 1000 1 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000
Week to Friday
Week Beifore
2689.413356.71 953 1 706.2] 1346 1 2048 1 239
2299.4 3298.4] 709 '| 569. l| 1937 | 2767 | 271
1 543
| 418
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
OVERSEAS INDEXES
LONDON: “Financial Times”
Inds. Secs. Gold.
Jan 3, 1966 . 338.7 78.74 61.3
1966 high . . . 374.0 79.43 65.2
1966 low . . . 337.3 76.93 59.6
Mth. ago . . . 374.0 77.00 63.3
Wk. ago . . . 344.4 77.23 61.7
Apr. 13 ... . 343.4 77.36 60.1
Apr. 14 ... . 342.4 77.48 59.6*
• Year low.
Markings: 9781 (9064).
NEW YORK: Dow Jones
1nds. Rails.
Jan. 3, 1966 . . . 965.54 247.38
1966 high .... 995.15 271.72
1966 low ... . 911.08 243.60
Mth. ago ... . 919.32 246.88
Wk. ago ... . 945.76 262.56
Apr. 13 ... . '938.36 262.49
Apr. 14 . . . . 945.48 262,34
Sales. 12,980,000 (10,440,000).
TOKYO: Dow Jones
Jan. 4, 1966 ....... 1430.13
1966 high 1588.73
1966 low 1412.98
Mth. ago 1558.77
Wk. ago •
Apr. 14 1537.90
Apr. 15 1535.20
* Good Friday.
AUSTRALIAN BONDS
Average Redemption Yields
Week before Friday
% %
Short 5.00 4.99
Medium 5.13 5.13
Long 5.25 5.25


GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
0,
'0
61
7%
7*t
TWO
YEARS
FIVE
YEARS
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 4Va%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 5 3 A%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6V 4 %
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS GVz%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7V 4 %
TEN YEARS 7 1 /a%
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectu&and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
P6QB
MAN ON THE LAND
Woolmark in West Germany
BIG-GAME hunting, they say, loses its
appeal when the quarry becomes a
sitting shot. Where the Internationa]
Wool Secretariat is concerned we, there-
fore, simply record the stark economic facts
about increased wool consumption in West
Germany in 1965.
The IWS, in a recent handout duti-
fully printed in most Australian papers
and journals in one form or another,
tells us that wool is making a remark-
able comeback in West Germany. “This
prosperous, sophisticated industrial giant is
showing the way in a world-wide drive
to win back the ground lost to man-
made fibres in postwar years,” says IWS.
“Key to the drive is the ‘Woolmark,’ an
international symbol to allow people to
recognise pure virgin wool atid a guaran-
tee of its quality and performance. No-
where has the world-wide campaign been
quite so hard—or quite so successful— as
in West Germany.”
The IWS goes on to tell us how the
Woolmark campaign was organised in
West Germany and concludes with the
statement that “the downward trend of
wool consumption in Germany was
checked and actually increased last year
by four percent over the 1964 figure.
Woolmark is, of course, the same symbol
which appears in Australia as “the symbol
of pure new wool.” They can’t call it
Woolmark here because someone got in
first and registered the name and that,
we feel sure, is a really interesting story
if anyone can ever glean the facts.
But the West German Woolmark
matter requires little gleaning work
merely reading readily available material.
That’s one thing about the Germans.
In statistics related to economic develop-
ments and trends they are super efficient.
We discover that, in the first nine
months of 1965, the German textile in-
dustry increased its turnover by nearly
six percent against the comparable period
in 1964. Imports of cloth (and made-
up textiles) into Germany in 1965 in-
creased 26.4 percent and exports increased
8.3 percent, compared with the same
period in 1964.
The textile industry, naturally, encom-
passes cotton, synthetics, and wool. Wool,
therefore, shared in a general increase in
textile activity in Germany, compared
with 1964 and the reader is entitled to
make his own assessment of the Wool-
mark contribution.
West Germany, it must be understood,
has what might be termed a stop-and-go
economic policy in the best tradition. In
January this year Dr. Emminger, foreign
director of the Bundesbank, gave one of
his rare interviews. Extracts from it give
a clear picture of the differences between
German policy in 1965 and in 1964.
Dr. Emminger said that Germany, at
present, was living beyond her income.
He said that this would be corrected with
a continuation of export growth, with
some diminution of the excessively high
demand for imports. Germany was having
an imports boom at present.
Dr. Emminger said: “It is true that in
1965 German prices may have risen some-
what more than prices in other EEC
countries. The other factor in the present
import boom is, however, the difference
in demand pressures as between the various
EEC countries. In 1962-63 there was an
excessive demand in France and Italy,
with a consequent boom in German exports
to these countries. Now we have an exces-
sive demand in Germany coinciding with
a near-stagnation in Italy and France;


EDITORIAL
ASSISTANT
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
To undertake detailed preparation of
Manuscripts for publication and to
carry out the necessary correspon-
dence with authors and to be re-
sponsible for proofreading. Good
educational qualifications and good
typing essential. Experience in lib-
rary work, teaching, book-selling and
especially publishing, an advantage.
Salary up to $44-27 per week initially,
according to qualifications and ex-
perience and conditions of Clerical
Officers’ etc. Agreement, including no
Saturday work; four weeks’ annual
leave. Applications in writing to the
Registrar.
THE PENINSULA SCHOOL
MOUNT ELIZA, VICTORIA
will require in January, 1967,
A master to teach French and English, with a
second language preferred.
A master to teach General Subjects, with
some Commerce preferred.
Salary between $3,200 and $5,200.
Apply in writing to the Headmaster.
FLY
Ansett-ANA
AVIS
RENTA CAR
M
m
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
FLY AND DRIVE IN '66. 130 Avis Stations throughout
Australia are ready to give you instant service. Drive
one of the great new Falcons or other fine cars . . .
proper insurance protects you and frees you from care.
Avis honours Ansett-ANA and all nationally-recognised
credit cars. Book your Avis car when you book your flight.
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENT-A-CAR
this makes for very high imports from
these other EEC countries into Germany
and for a near-stagnation of German
exports to these countries.”
The doctor’s reference to Italy and
France is possibly a key to the increased
German consumption of textiles. He was
not specific about actual commodities and
neither does the IWS differentiate between
imported textiles and German-produced
goods. But Italy and France, as is well
known, are woollen textile manufacturing
countries.
West Germans, enjoying the good things
of life, even if they are living beyond their
incomes, are undoubtedly buying Italian
and French woollens, and probably
synthetics also. All consumer goods con-
sumption is up. Yet where else are im-
ports coming from?
We are now entering the twilight zone
of trade and no one, probably, knows the
full facts.
In West Germany early this year the
big news was the East German “double-
cross” of Soviet Russia, linked with the
suicide of East German Deputy-Premier
Erich Apel. The East German Com-
munists were found to be swindling their
Russian overlords by selling to the West,
for hard currency, finished products made
with Russian materials and equipment,
and at the same time defaulting on forced
deliveries to the Soviet Union.
How droll it would be if East German
woollen textiles were finding their way
into West German stores and getting a
free ride, so to speak, on the Woolmark
vehicle financed largely by Australian
woolgrowers and taxpayers generally.
Russia, in case anyone forgets, is second
only to Australia in sheep numbers and
wool production. No one really knows
if Russia is supplying East Germany with
raw wool and East Germany, in turn, sell-
ing finished goods to West Germany. Then
no one knows it is not happening, either.
The free-ride aspect of Woolmark is
our point. None of the South American
wool-producing countries subscribe to
IWS funds and, although Sir William
Gunn (IWS chairman) has had yet
another trip to Lima and Buenos Aires
recently, there is no sign of the South
Americans weighing in with their share.
The IWS can, it is true, control the
issue of Woolmark licences. It has no
control over the source of the wool
going into the finished product. Nor has
it any control over the customer in the
store who may pass over the article bear-
ing the Woolmark label for another article
right alongside.
There can never be enough money put
up by Australian woolgrowers and tax-
payers to close up all the possible loop-
holes. We could even see woollen goods
made in Red China selling in Australian
stores carrying, legitimately,' the Wool-
mark—sorry, “symbol of pure new wool.”


■ why not I
lease it?
Leasing means new machinery to-
day. Leasing means modern equip-
ment without capital outlay. Leas-
ing can mean a lot to you. Write for
our free booklet, “Lease Plan".
Learn all about the advantages of
leasing from our years of experience.
GENERAL
CREDITS
LIMITED
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
210 Alinga Street, Canberra. Ph.: 4 4231
Branch offices throughout Australia.
6850/C
AGRISEARCH
A Count Against Wool
Bacteria and laundering problems
NOT all agricultural research unfolds
good news. It now appears from a
U.S. Department of Agriculture study
that “golden staph” (Staphylococcus
aureus), a übiquitous micro-organism
responsible for many kinds of suppurative
infections, can live for 18 weeks on wool-
len blankets. Under the same conditions,
these bacteria, and presumably many other
pathogenic organisms, survive for 12
weeks on cotton blankets and for only 7
weeks on blankets made from artificial
fibre. This finding could provoke another
w’ave of prejudice against woollen textiles.
A few years ago an ill-founded belief
that woollen blankets were the prime cause
of cross-infection in hospitals spread
through the medical industry in the
U.S.A., Europe, and to some extent here.
Many leading hospitals replaced their
woollen blankets with cotton or artificial-
fibred blankets. This policy, which was
imposed by the medical interests, was
received joyfully by the fiscal departments
of the hospitals and cheered by the hos-
pital laundries. Washing woollen blankets
had always spelled trouble for the laun-
dries. The recommended method of wash-
ing, which involved boiling to achieve
sterility, invariably caused such severe
shrinking, felting, and discoloration that
the blankets sometimes had to be replaced
after only three or four washings. With-
drawal of direct patronage of wool by
such an important category of consumer
was beginning to have a noticeable effect
on the price of wool. And the potential
threat to the market was even more omi-
nous, as eventually other types of insti-
tutions and householders would have fol-
lowed the exemplary behaviour of the
hospitals.
Fortunately for woolgrowers, a team of
scientists working in Melbourne’s large
hospitals was able to show beyond doubt
that golden staph (and other pathogens)
travelled about wards by hitching a ride
on the fluff and on fine textile fragments
floating in the air, and that almost all of
this fluff and fibre came from cotton and
man-made fabrics. In short, the cotton
bedspreads, often of candlewick or
similarly fussy weave, provided the bulk
of the fluff, as they are folded and un-
folded frequently and patted and shaken
to smooth out creases. Smart hospital
matrons around the world have now
selected a colored or patterned top blanket
of wool to make their wards pleasing
to the eye of patients and doctors alike.
At about the same time the laundering
problems were also overcome when it was
shown that the common detergents which
are alkaline harm wool, but that non-
alkaline detergents do not, no matter how
hot the water. Accordingly, hospitals are
now able to sterilise their woollen blankets
in boiling wash-water many scores of
times before the blanket becomes unfit
to use.
Many other users of wool, including
housewives, still seem to be unaware that
appropriate detergents for washing wool
are now widely stocked by grocers and
supermarkets. If these detergents are used,
even fine-wool garments can be safely
washed in boiling water. So far as hos-
pitals are concerned, the recent authenti-
cated American finding that bacteria live
longest on wool need not be disturbing.
However, in private homes nowadays,
clothes are usually washed in water that
is well below sterilising temperatures.
(This is also the way of coin-in-the-slot
laundries, which may present some risk to
public health.) Much cross-infection may,
therefore, be occurring in families. And
woollen clothes could be chiefly to blame
for this, especially in those homes where
the housewife clings to the old-fashioned
detergents and avoids serious damage to
her woollens by washing them ever so
gently in tepid water.
Of course, under home laundry condi-
tions, woollen clothes would be only mar-
ginally more likely to cause disease than
cotton or artificial fabrics. Nevertheless,
to anticipate trouble the International
Wool Secretariat might well consider
launching a massive public education
campaign on home laundering. Mean-
while, germ-conscious housewives could
begin by adding a disinfectant to the rinse
water in their washing machines. This will
reduce the bacterial count from several
thousand per square inch of fabric
(depending on the temperature of the
wash-water) to less than fifty a safe
level.
Australian Phalaris
IF glasshouse and small plot studies can
be relied upon to provide an accurate
guide, the variety of phalaris that
happened to be brought to Australia years
ago is -as good as any other variety in
the world for our purposes. If we need
a different phalaris, for example one
which will produce more feed during
winter, we will have to breed it, as none
of the lines brought back from recent
plant exploration overseas are generally
better than our own. It was mentioned
recently in this column that the current
commercial variety has been improved by
breeding seed retention into it.
The Mediterranean region is the native
home of phalaris, and species collected in
Morocco, Algeria, Turkey, Israel, and
Greece were compared with the Aus-
tralian strain. In the phytotron at Can-
berra, in which the plants could be grown
under four different temperature regimes,


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
TO: RUPERT RENWICK CLYDE
LATTA. TAKE NOTICE that GWENNIE'
ERJNESTENER LATTA has filed a peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4125 of 1985 on the
ground of desertion and separation not-
withstanding the facts and circumstances
set out in a discretion statement filed by
her and seeks an order for costs. If you
wish to defend you should file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before the 18th day of May, 1968.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Alfred R. Parker &
Henningham, Solicitors, 29 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
Number M.C. 30 of 1966.
TO JAMEIS O’NEILL formerly of Hobart
in Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE that Jen-
nifer Jean O’Neill has filed a Divorce
Petition against you on the ground of
separation. Included in this Petition is a
claim for costs. AND TAKE NOTICE that
if you intend to defend the Petition you
must file an Answer within 28 days of
the publication of this notice at the Reg-
istry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania,
Macquarie Street, Hobart, from which
address further information can be
obtained otherwise the Court may hear
and determine the proceedings in your
absence. DATED this 22nd day of March,
1983. C. G. BRETTINGHAM-MOORE,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
- MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
Number M.C. 15 of 1966.
TO HENRY WALLACE BIRCH formerly
of Hobart and Rosebery in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that Gladys Mervene
Birch has filed a Divorce Petition against
you on the ground of separation.
Included in this Petition is a claim for
the custody of your children, mainten-
ance and costs. AND TAKE NOTICE
that if you intend to defend the Petition
you must file an Answer within 28 days
of the publication of this notice at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart, from
which address further information can
be obtained otherwise the Court may hear
and determine the proceedings in your
absence. DATED this 22nd day of March,
1966. C. G. BRETTINGHAM-MOORE,
Registrar.
certain difference in characters such as
time of flowering vigor, seasonal growth,
nitrogen content, seed retention, and total
vegetative yield did show up. However,
they were slight, and disappeared alto-
gether when the varieties were compared
outdoors in plots, except that the Aus-
tralian strain fairly consistently outyielded
the others. These comparisons have shown,
therefore, that, although there is no hope
of achieving pasture improvement by re-
placing the Australian phalaris with an
introduced line, there are differences be-
tween the lines; so it would be possible
by judicious crossing to breed new varie-
ties to suit certain situations. The Moroc-
can and Israeli types, for example, are
more cold hardy than ours. Crossing
could also result in a gain in hybrid vigor.
Viruses
THE viruses constitute promising means
of a biological control, though as yet
neither here nor in America have they
been put deliberately to insecticidal use.
However, a virus disease spread naturally
among the spruce sawfly in Canada several
years ago and great areas of valuable
forest have been saved from what would
otherwise have been devastating outbreaks
of this insect. Here in Australia, Mr. F.
Wilson, of CSIRO, has found that a
naturally occurring virus disease is restrict-
ing the population of cabbage white butter-
flies. Ironically, this virus became estab-
lished in the CSIRO’s laboratories at Can-
berra and for a number of years it was
impossible to raise colonies of this insect
for study purposes. Within the past year,
two new viruses have been found in Aus-
tralia which attack the light brown apple
moth and the potato moth, which are both
serious pests. It may well prove possible
to harness these viruses for practical
control.
Once again, ■ American experience is
already pointing the way. U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture scientists are on the
verge of disseminating man-made virus
insecticides to knock out two of America’s
most serious pests of cotton and tobacco.
They have reached the stage where it only
remains to be proved beyond the shadow
of a doubt that human health is not
threatened. Certainly, mice and guinea-
pigs are quite unharmed by the new virus
insecticides. It is hoped that, with addi-
tional research, the list of insects that can
be controlled by viruses will be increased
to more than two hundred.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 895
ACROSS
1. Styled talk of comedian Kelly. (9)
6. Firm you and I had intimidated because a military
leader took a wife. (5)
9. The way of the radical Victorian opener. (7)
10. Torrid measure at high speed. (7)
11. Solidifying blubber booth beside which Yours
Truly chants. (13)
13. No mate for Leo in the legendary Arthurian country-
off Cornwall. (8)
15. A liver disorder from high-liying I associated with
a small animal. (6)
18. Ack-ack outcome. (6)
19. Chilled delicacies of maize
mouldings. (8)
21. Nuts just out of sight. (6,
3,4)
24. Haze of some buddy fortune-
teller. (7)
25. An offspring for a famous
admiral. (5)
26. Canonised affirmative eye-
sores. (5)
27. Responsive poetry with lan-
guage knobs. (9)
DOWN
1. Packages containing a United
States physician of historic
fame. (10)
2. Roughs making the nursery-
bear no misses. (5-4)
3. Formerly of Canberra, to be
precise. (5)
4. One who believes in noth-
ing turned in greeting some
register. (8)
5. Flower had upset 51 with
the article. (6)
6. Snub can drink when inter-
rupting. (7, 2)
7. This has grown contrary to
the truth. (5)
8. Assignation fruit. (4)
12. It ends Sid’s disordered and
disagreeable people. (10)
14. Subject having the comic
nose. (9)
16. Relative to a Kelly requiring
a wash. (9)
17. Tread sound enough for a
season to measure. (8)
20. Top of the foot marching
conformably. (6)
21. Everything you turned in a
thoroughfare. (5)
22. It’s pinkish and dawn-
colored noise is disturbing for
it. (5)
23. Out of bed as the poison of
the Antiar tree appears. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 894


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail—26 weeks, $8.25:
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
AMERICA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address .................................................
□ Renewal. j J New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
SPECULATORS DIARY
Recourse to Racing Talk
Hints from a share TAB
LAST Wednesday lunchtime I found myself forcing a way through the hordes in Pitt
Street to enter the comparative quiet of Cahills. So it was that even a non-racing
man like myself knew there was a big race meeting by the size of the crowds at the
TAB shops. The whole scene made such an impression on me that I was tempted to
write to the stock exchanges suggesting that they might form some link with the TAB.
As a start, a TAB shop would be opened
up in the Stock Exchange gallery. To
educate the punter turned investor to the
mysteries of shares, the attractions of dif-
ferent shares could be presented in racing
language. To make myself more clear on
this specific matter, as well as providing
an overdue review of the portfolio, I now
present the form of Speculator’s Diary.
PONGRASS: Since change of owners,
has made some good runs. Should reach
peak when raced over longer distances.
VAM: Rank outsider. Surprised field
with a strong finish in the 1965 Copper
Cup. However, recent form only fair.
B. J. BALL: Well up in the early stages
of the Interim Stakes, but weakened at
the finish. Will probably rest up this
autumn.
RIVERINA TV: Form best known in
Wagga. Believed to be shaping well.
WESTERN MINING: Best perform-
ance of the week, with a splendid run in
the Nickel Maiden Handicap.
FIRE FIGHTING: Has made a strong
comeback in recent years. Is continuing
to improve. Does not like heavy tracks.
WESTERN TITANIUM: Highly re-
garded filly which has performed well
over the last year.
tIOAL AND ALLIED: Well-bred
stayer that justified heavy betting when it
came home in front in the Interim Stakes.
AMALGAMATED CHEMICALS:
Although form has been disappointing,
recently changed hands at a record price.
Should settle down now in new stable.
WESTRALIAN: Bred in Western Aus-
tralia. Should pay handsomely if it comes
in.
COMENG: An international of note.
Has won several times in South Africa.
Also a consistent performer here, although
competition much stronger.
FOWLERS VACOLA: Caused a big
payout last month. Should do very much
better with lighter weight.
W. R. CARPENTER: Has maintained
form for several seasons now. Doubts last
year about New Guinea origin now being
dispelled.
DEPOSIT AND INVESTMENT:
Reached peak in 1962 only to fall heavily
in the Bad Debts Stakes of that year.
Shaping up satisfactorily after a long
spell.
TYREE: Although still regarded as an
outsider, always finishes well up in the
field.
COTTEES: Heavily backed in all its
recent races. Would not surprise to see it
score in Takeover Cup in June.
NUTTALL: Disappointing run in last
race. However, should benefit from Mel-
bourne experience.
So there you have it. Because of the
heavier weight that Western Mining is
carrying, this stock has been scratched.
However compelling the reason, if a share
rises 40 cents in one hit it’s very difficult
to resist the profit there. In this case it
amounted to just 80 dollars.
Out of one mining stock into another.
Consolidated Rutile becomes the third
beach sand stock of the portfolio.
Whereas the other two (Westralian and
Western Titanium) are established pro-
ducers, Consolidated Rutile is still in the
formative stages. Only listed last year,
Consolidated Rutile was formed to work
the beach sands on North Stradbroke
Island. Unlike some other recent mining
floats, establishment costs have been
within the original estimates.
Also, as originally planned, production
should commence in July. Equally im-
portant as production are selling prices.
No problems here, as both the rutile and
zircon prices are continuing to rise. At 90
cents, there’s plenty of room for the
V shares to move up.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
200 Western Mining, $3.12, $6ll.
BOUGHT
500 Consolidated Rutile, 89c, $456.
The account is now back into credit
with a final figure of $52. I hope there’ll
be calm seas ahead.
The portfolio now consists of:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 $l.lO $l.lO
200 VAM 28/9/65 0.50 0 42
400 B. J. Ball 2/2/66 0 88 0.30
400 Riverina TV 13/2/66 0.74 0.75
400 West Titanium ctg. 13/2/66 1.15 1 05
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.75
400 Coal and Allied 24/2/66 1.36 1.38
500 Amal. Chem. put
option 3/3/66 1.35 0 35
1000 Westralian ' 8/3/66 0.35 0.35
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.12
200 Fowlers Vacola 13/3/66 0.45 045
200 W. R. Carpenter 24/3/66 2 58 2 65
500 Amal. Chem. 29/3/66 0 85 0 85
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.20
100 Tyree 30/3/66 1.62 1.65
200 Cottees 5/4/66 2.96 3.00
400 Nuttall 5/4/66 0.70 0.70
500 Consol. Rutile 13/4/66 0.89 0.89
Mount Lyell’s Gain
WITH London Metal Exchange cop-
per prices more than double the
world producers’ price of £336 stg.
per ton, Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway
Company Ltd., the only Australian com-
pany to sell any of its output at LME
prices (about 20 percent), stands to gain
in the near future from the current boom.
Should strong enough pressures be
brought to bear on world producers to
lift their price, benefits may also accrue
to other Australian copper producers, but
these may be short-lived. The current
world copper shortage is expected to be
overcome by 1967 as a result of major
expansion plans being undertaken by
world producers.


X.
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
SYDNEY
LOS ANGELES
HONOLULU
FIJI
NEW ZEALAND
The whole Pacific is our dish...
Let’s make it yours!
Now every Thursday and
Saturday at 11.15 a.m. from
Sydney to Hong Kong.
Wednesdays 11.15 a.m. Sydney
to Singapore.
rmm
The Pacific's wide blue bowl is home-
territory to AIR NEW ZEALAND. Now
you can fly all round it by new long-
range DC-Bs, perfect version of the
world’s most preferred jetliners. New
accents on comfort and quietness. And
a bright new concept: Five Star Jetline
Service, dedicated to you. Five Star?
Food and wines you’d rate outstanding
anywhere. And quietly thoughtful atten-
tion all the way.
AIR NEW ZEALAND, the airline that
goes to more trouble to make your
flight a great pleasure.
air new mm
The Five Star Jetline
in association with BOAC and Qantas, Air New Zealand’s general sales agents in Australia.


I
,
*
Op
P
m
TWk J*‘ :
m*
• -y v
mm
Into your life comes
the excitement car of ’66
(The excitement of new power, new comfort, new style!)
Humdrum driving’s out. New Turbo-Smooth Holden’s in.
Equipped for action like no Holden before it.
Three more powerful engines provide the spirit. 114-hp ‘l6l’,
126-hp ‘lB6’ and twin-carburettor ‘X2’ now packing 145-hp. All
Disc brakes, power steering, Powerglide automatic transmission—
to name but a few. But even before you drive there’s plenty to
get excited about. The superb new softness of Holden’s seats. The
fine-car look and feel of new Sadlon upholstery. And styling that’s
with new power spun to a turbo-smoothness
by engine refinements no other car near the
price can match. The ride’s new, too, and just
as smooth. And if you’ve a mind to make the
going even better, Holden offers the widest
choice of options available in Australia!
. new .
Turboismooth
HOLDEN
Australia’s own car
1 J J o-
beautifully new. New grille, new wrap-around
bumpers, new front fenders, graceful new
sweep of rooflinc into freshly styled rear deck.
All bring new appeal to Australia’s Own Car.
Excitement? Holden has never offered you
more. Drive it soon at your Holden dealer’s.
General Motors-Holden’s
O 5*
