

The Bulletin
„
V
OCTOBER 8, 1966
INDIRA GANDHI
■ttijfc^^^^^fA^jjnilgmksiof^^DOStasanewspaper
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l/ Malaysia $1


s(i fTr.
sJT 5i
**■
■■
jttt i .«<y
*■*•«'*
¥
Vjt
II
1
p
-
4*o
K
alB
■ <•■
•• vsi
-* . * ■■■'.
THE ONLY THING IT SHARES
WITH OTHER WAGONS IS THE ROAD
Think of any wagon in Falcon’s class.
Now make it longer, wider, sleeker,
stronger, and more powerful, and
you've just described the Falcon 500
Station Wagon.
There’s over seven feet of usable
load-length with the front seat in a
driveable position. Load-space is
wider and higher too, so that now the
new Falcon will handle a load that’s
bigger by far than any other wagon
near the price!
There’s more people-room as well.
More shoulder room, hip room, leg
room and knee room.
On the road, the Falcon 500 Station
Wagon out-handles all comers. Its
wider 58-inch track and longer 111-
inch wheelbase, plus bigger 7,35 x 14
inch extra-low-profile tyres give you
an incredibly sure-footed ride.
As for muscle, they don’t come any
tougher than the new Falcon 500
Wagon. It’s engineered throughout to
take V 8 power. Brakes are now 10"
In diameter. The chassis, suspension,
transmission, clutch and rear axle are.
all extra-heavy-duty.
The standard engine is an even
more responsive “Pursuit 170” or, if
you prefer, there’s the "Super Pur-
suit 200”, and a new 200-horse-
power “Mustang 289” VB.
You also have the choice
of. four transmissions,
Take the wheel for
the greatest move of
your life ... at your
Ford Dealer’s,


m
5.%.
r
W-
■
■ • &
t<-
y*
% 1
;■■■:■:
■
Not just ‘Coonawarra’ but
COONAWARRA ESTATE
Coonawarra Estate is the original “Coonawarra”. This famous vineyard
was founded in 1890 (an illustration of the original cellars appears on
every label of genuine Coonawarra Estate wine). Years of careful culti-
vation have consistently produced vintage wines of exceptional quality.
If you prefer originals, collect and enjoy Coonawarra Estate.
Coonawarra Estate HERMITAGE 1962 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate CABERNET 1959 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate RIESLING 1965 Vintage
A:i Estate of S. Wynn & Co.
CS4R
LETTERS
“Right-wing Extremists”
Sir,
On page 264 of his “My Years in
the Communist Party” (reviewed 8.,
September 17), Mr. Ralph Gibson sets
the tone for what is beginning to be
an attempt to discredit consistent anti-
Communists on the ground that they
are “right-wing extremists” (he calls
them anti-Communist crusaders). He
writes: “Our whole national future (by
which he means the future of the Com-
munist Party) may depend upon
scotching the lies of the ‘anti-
Communist’ crusaders . . . ‘The local
anti-Communists’ have been getting
bolder lately, and we need to answer
them more boldly—demolish their lies
and show the deadly harm they can do
to the nation (read Communist Party).”
Now, of course, the Communist
Party of Australia does not, in fact—
and never has—acted boldly in this
field. Instead, it relies, as it has always
relied, upon canards purveyed by its
fellow travellers. Mr. Gibson, on page
220, is interesting about them. “About
100 members withdrew from the Com-
munist Party in Victoria (at the time
of the Hungarian rising). They were
mainly middle-class people, largely
intellectuals. I write of them here with
feelings of respect and friendship,
because in their majority they have
remained progressive and have not
sought to undermine or disrupt the
party. They have, in fact, much com-
mon ground with the party on many
questions. Their differences with the
Communist Party centred, I would
say, partly on questions of socialist
democracy and partly on the theory
and practice of democratic centralism
within the party.”
These are the people who snidely
purvey Communist - Party slanders
throughout the self-styled “intellectual
world” and beyond; these were the
Communist Party’s public fellow
travellers during the political operation
known as the “Vietnam debate,” an
operation that was not eventually very
successful. The people being accused
as “Right Wing Extremists” today are
the people who notably contributed to
the blunting of that political operation;
people like Frank Knopfelmacher,
CONTENTS
This Australia 14
Mrs. Ghandi’s India 20
Lucky Country Revisited .... 26
One More Week 30
Batman 32
Sheila Scotter’s “Vogue” .... 34
Arts and Entertainment 39
Books 44
Business and Finance 48
Man on the Land 66
Speculator’s Diary 70


m
y
5
i
:
■
%
1
,
%
Ball I
■F
:
r
All airlines have pilots. So why be so proud of ours? Because we know them
right from their very first plane ride. Where other airlines buy pilots,
we train them. From scratch. Even though it takes seven of our 56 plane fleet
to do it. And puts our senior captains into the instructor’s seat.
And keeps our graduate pilots in the co-pilot’s seat. For a year at least.
And logs each of our captains 10,000 hours or more, before they ever see'
the flight deck of a DCB. And still they could be 5,000 hours away
from the controls. Of course, they do make the most experienced flight
engineers, navigators and first officers in the business, which is what
we are after. Exactly. But perhaps you think we’re a little extreme.
(Especially if you know how many pilots we lose to other airlines who buy
and don’t train!) But to us it’s worth it. Because it gives us an edge.
A little bit extra to offer all along the line. Even if it’s up front,
where, maybe, you’ll never notice.
AIRMANSHIP
AIRLINE
PHILIPPINE AIR UNES
Monday-Thursday movie jetway to all the East
69,177


Associated
Securities
Limited
73
4
Debenture Stock, 8-year term
Unsecured Notes, 5-year term
71
Debenture Stock, 5-year term
Unsecured Notes, 4-year term
7
% pa
Debenture Stock, 3-year term
Unsecured Notes, 2-year term
%
61
Debenture Stock, 2-year term
Unsecured Notes, 1-year term
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form attached
to the Prospectus available from the Brokers:
Ord, Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
or
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
All Branches of Associated Securities Limited
Any Branch of the Bank of New South Wales.
497 N
Owen Harries, and Peter Samuel. They
are, in fact, men who would in no cir-
cumstances associate themselves with
organisations or organs of the real
“Radical Right,” like the “Australian
International News Review,” though
they are under attack by Left Wingers
who do support Communist policies,
whatever their reservations may be
about such esoteric matters as “socialist
democracy.”
Of course, to be attacked by people
who have used the sufferings of Viet-
nam in an attempt to get themselves
out of the intellectual bankruptcy court
is an honor for those attacked. But the
attack is part of what Mr. Ralph Gib-
son regards as a political campaign of
central importance to the Communist
Party. It is highly desirable that the
public should understand what this is
all about, especially as some political
innocents in the Liberal Party have
started repeating the “Right Wing
Extremist” charge against members of
the Defend Australia Committee, and
against the prominent anti-Communist
figures in the “Vietnam Debate.”
The Communist Party knows the
truth of what Mr. Kim Beazley wrote
the other day: “. . . Communist power
can only be advanced by foreign power.
The Party is unacceptable in Australia
. . . From the time a penetrated (and
expelled) ‘State Labor Party’ in New
South Wales affiliated with them, the
Communists have sought to implement
their policy through Labor.” The
Communist Party, moving as always
under cover of camouflaged objectives
(for example, “Peace in Vietnam”
rather than the real “Viet Cong victory
in Vietnam”), using fellow travellers
as chief public propagandists, and
grooming certain figures in the Left
Wing of the Labor Party to engineer
a future penetration and affiliation, are
perfectly aware that its ultimate suc-
cess depends entirely on two factors:
very significant Communist victories in
South-East Asia and effective domina-
tion of Labor Party policymaking. In
order that these factors may become
operative it is necessary for the Com-
munist Party at all costs, through its
fellow travellers particularly, to dis-
credit those best equipped to expose its
tactics and identify men and groups
who are in effect simply disguised
Communist functionaries.
The manner of discrediting such
people is to suggest that they are
Extremists of a kind repellent to
ordinary easygoing Australians, partly
by mendaciously creating the impres-
sion that they are involved with the
real “Radical Right,” partly (and much
more effectively) by suggesting that
people who are consistently anti-
Communist are illiberal or reactionary
m “other ways,” too. For a very long
time now there has been only one test
of progressivism in the “intellectual
world”: anti-anti-Communism. All the
Communists need for the successful
prosecution of their guerilla politics is
the acquiescence not the support
of the majority of their articulate
people influential in the mass media,
universities, and so on.
I should like, therefore, as an undis-
tinguished but unequivocal supporter
of the Knopfelmachers and Owen
Harrieses of the “Vietnam Debate,” to
state my own position very clearly. For
years I have been in favor of a very
significant liberalisation of our immi-
gration laws as they affect “Asians,”
the abolition of capital punishment,
the removal of penal laws against
homosexuals, the significant liberalisa-
tion of a censorship system that is
anti-intellectual (while promoting the
sale of voyeurs’s journals), and for a
good deal more national planning.
Since Australia is doing very well
affluence-wise I would want to be
deeply convinced before I accepted
proposals to nationalise an industry;
but the word nationalisation induces
no feeling of horror. I just reserve the
right to oppose Communists’ tactics and
draw attention to the way they operate.
I admit to feeling excessively irritated at
times when I find my friends accused
of being Extremists, Radical Rightists,
or crusaders (crusaders! the local Com-
munists really do have a high opinion
of themselves) by men who have spent
their lives apologising for, when not
lying about, a totalitarian system of
militaristic mould and extraordinary
State cruelty, which they want to
impose upon what is a pretty lucky
and happy country.
GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Canberra (A.C.T.)
The Lord's Prayer
Sir,
The word “bread” in the Lord’s
Prayer does not refer to physical
nourishment at all. Dr. Maurice Nicoll
in his book “The Mark” points out
that the request for “daily bread” is
the first personal request in the Lord’s
Prayer, and must therefore be of
prime importance. It follows after the
plea “Thy will be done ... on
earth.” “Earth” is the equivalent of
the sensory man; and “Thy will” can
only be done if man lets it be done
by preparing the ground.
The word “epiousios,” so inade-
quately translated as “daily,” can be
broken up into two parts —“epi” and
“ousios.” “Ousios” means “that which
is one’s own” and refers, in a legal
sense, to one’s own personal property.
“Epi” means position, the position of
something that is resting upon some-
thing else, and so above it and touching
it.
Therefore “epiousios” can be said to
refer to that which is real in a man,
that which he has lost on earth and
turns to God to find. The plea is for
restoration of spiritual nourishment
from the only source of that nourish-
ment, and which nourishes “what is
one’s own.”
In the request for bread, no ordinary
bread is asked for, but the very food
by means of which one can grow inter-
nally, in “being,” in thought, in feeling,
in understanding. It is a request for
what we lose in an artificial, unnatural
way of life, but is really within reach,
just above us, touching us.
It is better to keep the Lord’s Prayer
as it is. The only change required is one
of a little more inner understanding and


"w m
ILWA *■
sc
V Ml fatZT*B*- 8 *-
mi
snßp %ii»s
' Ml «n,3
w^s*si
<*»•» n
/."Mil *,
You need more than a driver's licence
to be a Remington technician
No joke. It needs three years training and regular re-
fresher courses. Only then is a Remington technician
allowed even near a customer's machines.
Pretty solid, you might say. But it pays off. The Reming-
ton trainee school turns out the most highly trained team
of office equipment experts in the country.
One particular thing Remington men learn is that a
client hates to be kept waiting in an emergency. That's
why they've built a reputation for being the fastest
qualified experts of this type, on the scene anywhere.
And we mean anywhere ! Remington's service team
has offices in 94 cities and towns throughout Australia.
When you've got more machines throughout the country
than anyone, you need the largest team to service them !
A Remington technician certainly goes through a lot
before he's sent out on the road. But it means that
Remington's clients can forget about service worries. -
What driver's licenr - ' '-ould do that for you ?
Remington-Rand The Largest Business Equipment Organisation in the World
TYPEWRITERS . ADDING MACHINES . ACCOUNTING MACHINES • CALCULATING MACHINES . ADP EQUIPMENT • OFFICE SYSTEMS . FILING EQUIPMENT • DUPLICATORS . OFFSET PRINTING MACHINES
OFFICE SUPPLIES • POSTAL FRANKING MACHINES • ADDRESSER PRINTERS • LETTER OPENING & SEALING MACHINES • FOLDING & INSERTING MACHINES • COUNTING & IMPRINTING MACHINES
RR466


take the
gamble out
of your next
function
Chevron was named top of the hotel restaurants
in the 1966 Golden Plate Awards—plus the Cater-
ing Exposition's first prize for cocktail savouries.
Chevron has been chosen by hotel men themselves
in 4 consecutive years for their annual gala ball.
Chevron is preferred by the most select wine and
food societies.
Chevron’s cellar is recognised as the finest in Aus-
tralia.
Chevron can cater for 8 to 800 at as little as $2.25
a head.
You can rely on the experience and renowned
service of Chevron for buffets, cocktails, luncheons,
dinners or banquets.
B
Phone our Advisory Bureau, 35-0433, ext. 215, for sample
menus and range of costs. See how Chevron can help
make your next function a greater success. There’s no
obligation.
Chevron
SYDNEY
Macleay Street, Pott’s Point. 35-0433.
enlightenment from those whose role
presumably is to give it.
W. HART-SMITH
Mosman (N.S.W.)
Sir,
Dr. Charlesworth’s version of the
Our Father is very interesting. I have
heard, however, that “Blessed be your
name” might be better translated “May
You be recognised as holy,” “Your
name” being simply another way of
saying “You” —like “Your Majesty.”
(Miss) M. O'MALLEY
Fairlight (N.S.W.)
Christianity
Sir,
As an outspoken critic of the Church
and its practitioners, may I pay tribute
to “Cleric” (8., September 24) for his
splendid pronunciamento: “Every form
of medieval artificiality, and unneces-
sary formality, everything that separates
and estranges people from the real con-
tent of Christianity will have to go, to
be replaced by what is real, authentic,
and community-binding.”
The fact that “Cleric” has to either
remain anonymous in saying it, or,
alternatively, as he puts it, “say it in
muted or disguised tones,” surely
answers Patrick Tennison’s question
(8., September 10): “. . . . what was
wrong in the past? Who made the mis-
takes, and how?” Read in conjunction
with the quotation: “This chap Jesus I
can buy, but the Church I can’t,” this
means, logically and inescapably, that
what was (and is) wrong is the CHRIS-
TIANITY of the Church.
“Cleric,” both conveniently and
clearly, provides one specific area in
which the Church errs when he says
“there is no real way to measure the
amount of basic faith.” For it’s a safe
bet that his definition of basic faith
would be wrong—the -definition would
not be the definition as distinctly deter-
mined by Jesus. That answers Mr.
Tennison’s question.
I sincerely hope the dialogue may
continue thanks to THE BULLE-
TIN.
EWAN TUCKER
Sandringham (Vic.)
If Down Were Up
Sir,
Is Australia always to be referred to
as “down under” by that large con-
tinent situated “up over” simply be-
cause maps have always been printed
with north at the top of the page? As
a boy I had never questioned that fact.
But a remark a friend made recently
set me thinking. An American tourist
had said “you folks down under” and
sparked the fuse.
‘ Space travellers do not see us that
way,” my friend said.
I asked, “Where would the sun rise
if you changed the map?”
“East, of course. It is over three
thousand years since the Phoenicians
gave the name Asu (sunrise) to the
land east of them, and Ereb (sunset)
to the west. We cannot alter that.”
“Nor can we alter the fact that the


rwr\~g ♦ # ♦
1 lus is your bmp
m
I
along with the other 37 of the A.N.L...
Yes, Australia’s largest and most progressive shipping
organisation is your Shipping Line, operated on behalf
of you , the people of Australia. It came about this
way: In October 1956, the Australian Coastal Shipping
Commission was established to be the owners and
operators of the Commonwealth’s fleet of merchant
ships. These were largely wartime-built vessels which
had since continued trading on the coast under
temporary management arrangements.
The Australian Coastal Shipping Commission acquired
the fleet at current market value and other vessels
under construction at cost, the capital for these
purposes, amounting to $31,465,320, being provided
by the Commonwealth.
On Ist January, 1957, the Commission began trading
as the Australian National Line and, in accordance
with the legislation under which it is constituted,
operates on private enterprise lines, paying company
and other taxes, and is thereby placed in a similar
position to its competitors.
The success of the A.N.L. may be judged from
these figures:—
* 18 new ships added to the fleet, which now
numbers 38 vessels.
* Over $46 million invested in new tonnage.
* $2O million paid in Income Tax.
* Dividends paid of $lB million.
* Fixed assets raised to $79 million.
Since its inception A.N.L. bas carried more than
56 million tons of cargo and 630,000 passengers.
In creating this record of achievement the A.N.L. has shown its
leadership in the industry by introducing practically every major
development in coastal shipping in the past 10 years. For example:—
* It pioneered the roll-on, roll-off cargo handling principle which
has revolutionised trade between the mainland and Tasmania
and reduced freights by up to 30%.
* It introduced the first self-discharging bulk grain carrier on the
coast.
* It pioneered shipments by large containers and provided shore
cranes and 20-ton fork lifts to handle them.
* It recommenced after a lapse of 24 years, the passenger/cargo
service between Sydney and Tasmania with the “Empress of
Australia”, the largest ship of her type in the world.
Other innovations designed to ensure the fastest and most economical service include side port loading,
enabling cargo to be placed directly into the ship from the w harf by forklift, and the installation of automatic
container platforms. The A.N.L. bulk fleet of modern vessels includes the 50,000-ton “Darling River” (pictured
above), largest ship in service on the Australian coast.
And what of the future? The A.N.L. Shipbuilding programme envisages six new vessels in the next 2-3 years ,
including 3 specialised roll-on , roll-off/container ships for the Queensland trade and a further passenger/cargo
ship for the Tasmanian service.
In these developments the A.N.L. is again pioneering positive action, this time to meet the
challenge of containerisation of Australia's import and export cargoes.
Service to the Nation
A-IVT-T i
e»s@
THE AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL LINE
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST AND MOST
PROGRESSIVE SHIPPING ORGANISATION
73-79 RIVERSDALE AVENUE, SOUTH MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
AND AT SYDNEY, PORT KEMBLA, NEWCASTLE,
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE & DEVONPORT.


Turnover
a new leaf
Turn over a new leaf - Benson and Hedges Special
Smoking Mixture. Blended from Latakia, Perique
& other distinctive leaf, it's mild, smooth, aromatic.
For just 79c a tin, this is the right tobacco when
only the best will do. And isn't that all the time?
Benson and Hedges
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
79c
■
,/J
I : 1
ms
I ip
■UBi 1111 l
f' ■' h 7= "M. "' r f' *&&tkiw //
117 '^MBiiiiiiiiiii!
I
,
a
I I
■1
lit*
ifj
.
,■ M
*St
■I
mni
8H95R.8.66
magnetic north has been used for direc-
tion finding ever since the magnetic
or e was found in Asia Minor,” I re-
minded him.
All this was very interesting, but it
was getting us nowhere as regarding the
printing of maps. I mentioned the
muddle in directional guidance if his
plan were adopted, and the world was
printed upside down.
“It already is in that state,” he re-
marked. “But you are wrong about
muddle. Directions would not vary. We
in Australia would still sail north-east
to America, and north-west to Asia and
Europe, and south to Antarctica; the
magnetic north would not lose its mag-
netism. If we faced the South Pole
the west would still be on the right
hand and east on the left hand. But
WE would be ‘up over’ and THEY
would be ‘down under.’ See for your-
self how much more interesting the
map looks, after years of viewing it
from the wrong position.”
I had to agree with him. It even
gave the USSR a new perspective, an
agreeably ‘down under’ aspect! But,
so far I have not heard how he is
succeeding in organising a Convention
of Mariners, Aviators, Cartographers,
and Educationists to discuss his extra-
ordinarily sensible point of view.
D. HAYES
Newport (N.S.W.)
Lullaby Lads and Lasses
Sir,
Mr. Buckley accuses “Dissent” of
being “gutless” because it (and other
journals) “tumble down into a senti-
mental heap whenever they are con-
fronted with the foreign policy prob-
lems posed by Communist China, the
NLF . . . etc.” (8., September 17).
Mr. Buckley should take more care in
his research. On guerilla warfare he
should refer to Geoffrey Fairbairn’s
piece in issue No. 14; on the problems
posed by China in South-East Asia, to
George Modelski’s article in No. 15;
and on foreign policy problems gener-
ally, to the article by Arthur Burns in
No. 16. Although he may not agree
with these articles, abusive generalisa-
tions of the kind he makes are simply
absurd.
Secondly, Mr. Buckley should also
be much more careful in quoting the
American “Dissent” (August 13). The
met is that its editor, Irving Howe, has
repeatedly and strongly attacked U.S.
policy in Vietnam. Neither the Ameri-
can nor the Australian “Dissent” have
advocated a Viet Cong victory. Or is
Mr. Buckley implying otherwise of the
Australian “Dissent” by the use of the
quotation from Howe? If he is he
should say so and give evidence.
Ycrur correspondent Mr. R. Evans
(8., September 10) and Mr. Buckley
claim that “Dissent’s” original purpose
has recently been subverted because,
they argue, the early “focus” on anti-
Communisxn is no longer adhered to.
This has never been true. “Dissent” was
not intended to act as a forum for
anti-Communism. “D isse n t” was
founded and still is a democratic,
socialist journal and remains, since the
proposition is embodied in democratic
socialism, against Communist totali-
tarianism. Mr. Buckley’s current com-
plaint is very similar to the censure
handed out to “Dissent” some years
ago by Dr. Knopfelmacher (see THE
BULLETIN, 28/12/1963). This is
apparently the period Mr. Evans con-
siders “Dissent” was still untainted by
establishment Maoism-Stalinism. All
that one can say of Mr. Evans’ last
sentence is that it is cheap and con-
temptible.
LEON GLEZER
Melbourne (Vic.)


4
A
At the beginning of the century, Carrier
went to work on theories for
controlling temperature and humidity.
i
jP
Now
practically every air conditioning
system in the world is based on his
original ideas.
I 8
KSBB&&Siii
This means that when you install
Carrier, you receive the benefits of
soundly engineered and designed
equipment, descended in direct line
from Willis Carrier’s original concept -
plus the technical backing of the
world’s foremost authority on air
conditioning.
Carrier have led the world in air
conditioning ever since they invented it!
Carrier Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth Distributors Sandovers O’Connor.
The Bulletin
THE CONTEMPTIBLE PRESS
86 Years Ago: October 9, 1880.
JT is quite certain that if a begga
unexpectedly elevated to the bad
of a high-stepping trotter will make
an unseemly exhibition of himself,
snob in office will yet more glaringly
betray the inherent rottenness of hi
nature. It is the unfailing test of
noble mind that it remains unspoif
by fortune. To whatever height in
the social scale it may ascend, it never
becomes puffed up with persona
pride and scornful of the surroundings
of humbler days. The common-place
being, on the contrary,
Dressed in a little brief authority
Most ignorant of what he’s mos
assured,
Plays such fantastic tricks before
high heaven,
As make the angels weep.
We are led to these reflections by
noting the gorgeously shoddy style
in which officials like Sir Henry
Parkes and Sir James Martin speak
of the Press. Time was when both oi
them owed any little importance they
possessed in the community to their
connection with an institution of
which they now affect such scorn-
ful indifference. [Sir James Martin
had been editor of the “Atlas” in
the 1840 s, and Sir Henry Parkes
editor of the “Empire” in the 18505.]
According to the Chief Justice,
forsooth! the Press and the people
connected with it have “no duties,”
only to look after the pounds, shil-
lings, and pence, while the Premier
in public addresses, like that he deliv-
ered at Ashfield, can never too sar-
donically sneer at the “young men”
who contemptible pursuit! write
in newspapers. So long as the Press
served their turn, it was the “pal-
ladium of English liberty” the
“bulwark against the encroachments
of arbitrary power.”
Now that it galls their knightly
withers, it has “no duties,” and would
soon, if they (and such as they) had
their will, have no rights. Of all con-
tempts even including that non-
descript offence, “contempt of Court”
there is none so contemptible as
this contempt of the soil out of which
we have sprung. The Press remains
an able and inestimable institution,
even though these two knights have
wiped its dust off their aristocratic
heels and painted their new escut-
cheons over the old ink stains on their
lacquered armor.
CROWDED and enthusiastic
meeting for the purpose of pro-
testing against the decision of the
judges in the late contempt of Court
case was held in the Masonic Hall on
Tuesday evening. The speech of the
evening was made by Mr. Daniel
O’Connor, who had disentombed some
long-forgotten facts in regard to the
political history of the judges. Reso-
lutions condemnatory of the action
of their Honors were unanimously
passed, and arrangements were made
to collect subscriptions for the pur-
pose of meeting the verdict.


slid
■
s a il
VXO.:!)> (I
WGHKjIHfIrCOIK
TOYOTA!
Farkllfbs 2?00 lbs. to 8.000 lbs. capacifiies
Toyota Fork Lift Trucks! Tough, dependable
fork lifts capable of outstanding performance
over a variety of light to heavy moving opera-
tions. Fast-moving models with smaller turning
circles, they enable one operator to manoeuvre
the biggest loads with increased skill and
precision. Light and simple to steer. Extremely
stable, too, with low centres of gravity. Engines
—sturdy, reliable, matched carefully to each
vehicle’s capacity to ensure big economy with
maximum effective use of the high torque.
Tough as they come—Toyota Fork Lift Trucks!
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LIMITED, SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS
AND DISTRIBUTORS TOYOTA TRUCKS AND FORKLIFTS
DISTRIBUTED BY: BRISBANE (SOUTH): Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd. Tel.:
4.6271. TOWNSVILLE: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd. Tel.: 6.107. MACKAY:
Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd. Tel.: 2752. SYDNEY: Thiess (Sales) Pty.
Ltd. Tel.: 67.3621. NEWCASTLE: R. J. Brown & Sons Pty. Ltd.
Tel.: 614.117. MELBOURNE: Emptor Pty. Ltd. Tel.: 546.4100.
ADELAIDE: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd. Tel.: 23.2111. PERTH: Prestige
Motors Pty. Ltd. Tel.: 21.6051. LAUNCESTON: Noyes Bros. Pty.
Ltd. Tel.: 2.1441. HOBART: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd. Tel.: 3.3141.
DARWIN: Thies's (Sales) Pty. Ltd. Tel.: 2.023.
FL.RI.IO7A


The home of Orlando Wines in South Australia’s Barossa Valley. From the original John C. Goodchild painting hanging in the Cellar
i
*
m
PSS
. ■■ ■ :
►JL .1
h
m
.
iB
- . • .
L.±
....
JfF'H
i<)( v
'VT.C.t
ORLAIMDO
laro^aHi^Uni
♦«<un VIST \<; Kl> ,\» STK\LI-U»W B
WHY IS ORLANDO
THE ONLY RIESLING
IN GREEN &, AMBER
BOTTLES?
The current vintage of Barossa Riesling is
bottled in green bottles for those who like
their Rhine Riesling to be youthfully fresh
and crisp.
For those who prefer their Riesling to be aged
and rounded, with the developed character-
istics that come from bottle ageing, Barossa
Riesling is in the traditional European amber
bottle. Amber glass keeps out the light and
protects the wine while it is ageing.
Because of the time it is held and the care
taken during ageing, the older vintages are
more expensive than the Riesling in green
bottles.
Since its inception in 1953, Orlando has won
more awards than any other Australian
Riesling - including a Gold Medal in 1964
and 1965 at Montpellier, France.
onm%
product
iarossa v
zmm
ORLANDO
papo^aßi^N,


Face of the Week
The General Synod of the Church
of England voted to change the
name to the Anglican Church of
Australia; this has to be ratified by
the dioceses and State Parliaments.
In Victoria, the Roman Catholic
Church asked qualified teachers not
working to fill the gap while its
teachers’ colleges changed from one
year’s training to two years. The
ACTU executive warned that it was
losing faith in the Arbitration sys-
tem. Melbourne University Professor
TJj oms o n, anthropologist and
Abb.rigines Board member, said Vic-
toria' seemed bent on exterminating
its Aborigines. There were 13 gal-
lantry awards to soldiers in the Ist
Battalion, RAR, won in Vietnam.
Three men were drowned when a
scallop boat overturned in Port
Phillip Bay. A Canberra boy missing
from home was found strangled, and
the remains of a Brisbane girl miss-
ing for two years were found buried.
★
Prime Minister Holt, recovered
from pleurisy, said he would attend
a Vietnam allies summit conference
in Manila, and that President John-
son might visit Australia afterward.
The hearing of charges against nine
former H. G. Palmer directors ended
in Sydney, and five were committed
for trial. Postmaster-General Hulme
said Australians held almost 2J mil-
lion TV licences, including 859,000
in N.S.W. and 668,000 in Victoria.
BOAC gained approval for flights to
Australia via the U.S.A. The Aus-
tralian Dental Association said only
three in 100 children had perfect
teeth. The Perth Royal Show began
as Melbourne’s closed, and Sydney’s
Waratah Festival began as Brisbane’s
Warana ended.
★
Sir Robert Menzies left to lecture
on Australian constitutional develop-
ment at the University of West Vir-
ginia. An Australian trade exhibition
was opened in Trinidad. N.S.W.
decided to continue present mar-
garine quotas, with Marrickville
Margarine’s share remaining at 2166
tons. The International Affairs direc-
tor of the African National Con-
gress, Robert Resha-, arrived in Aus-
tralia to raise funds. Singer Ronal
Jackson was appointed principal of
a School of Opera at the N.S.W.
Gonservatorium. The annual Blake
Prize for religious art went to Rod-
ney Milgate. Queensland reported a
steady rise in crimes by children.
In Canberra, the opening of a rent-
a-plane service was delayed when
the director, due to fly from Sydney,
found his plane had been rented to
the DCA.
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
After Manila
VOL. 88. No. 4518
OCTOBER 8, 1966
/"YNLY wilful optimists can be-
''-J lieve in the possibility of a
simple or dramatic solution to the
Vietnam war. The stakes are too
high, the commitments too firm, the
course of war too doubtful, and the
risks too great for either side to be
quickly shifted into a stance which
allows of a settlement. Nothing spec-
tacular therefore can be expected
to result from the seven-nation
talks in Manila later this month.
Nevertheless the talks could con-
tribute significantly to eventual
peace. In particular the conference
should be able to define more
clearly the way in which the
war is developing, for a consensus
on this is essential to agreement
about the concessions which may
safely be made to the Communists.
The Americans seem now to be
assuming that the war in the South
has become predominantly a war
against North Vietnamese soldiers
and that the indigenous Viet Cong
are no longer a self-sufficient force.
Hence Mr. Goldberg’s remarkable
offer to withdraw American troops
in step with the withdrawal of
North Vietnam army units. The
South Vietnamese Government has
made no comment on this state-
ment, but it must be apprehensive
about a concession which would
permit the Viet Cong of southern
extraction to continue their insur-
gency and leave the Saigon Gov-
ernment to counter it alone.
It may be that the Americans
are right in their new policy. The
Communist forces have suffered
terribly and become more and
more dependent on infusions of
regular North Vietnamese troops to
sustain their war effort. The
morale of Communist political
cadres must have suffered griev-
ously over the past few months, and
their attempted boycott of the elec-
tions was an utter failure
demonstrating not only the lack of
sympathy for them among ordinary
Vietnamese but also their impo-
tence outside ( their own areas. The-
Communists are also steadily losing
territory they have ruled for years.
Australian soldiers have freed
100,000 people from the Viet Cong"
in a matter of months. The lunatic
goings-on in Communist China and
the growing violence of the splits
in the Communist world must also
be causing the Viet Cong worry.
In all these circumstances it may
well be that South Vietnam could
handle the remains of the indige-
nous Viet Cong alone. But if this
is what the Americans intend, they
should spell it out at Manila so-
that the rest of us know where we~
stand.
The seven Premiers will also be
discussing reconstruction and civic
improvement, on which long-term
stability so heavily depends. The Ky
regime is probably more devoted
to success here than any other Viet-
namese government has been, and
an impressive number of “cadres”
are being trained. But progress is
slow and failures many. At Manila
allied Asian countries, which have
experienced some of Vietnam’s eco-
nomic and administrative problems,
may be in a position to participate
more fully with advice and assis-
tance and all the allies will want
assurances that Americans are tak-
ing steps to minimise unnecessary
tragedies in the bombing of villages.
At the very least, we on our
part should be prepared to spend
more than the miserable s2m. pro-
vided in the last Budget.


THIS AUSTRALIA
Manila-the New Image
The Philippines conference called by President Marcos for October 18 and to
be attended by President Johnson represents an attempt by those involved in the
Vietnam war to reshape an image.
A by-product of that reshaping of an
image could be a heavier pressure upon
Hanoi and North Vietnam to come to
the conference table without the pre-
conditions hitherto insisted upon that
would give North Vietnam the victory
that it has failed to win militarily or
politically.
The image that the attending powers
—the Philippines, Thailand, South
Korea, South Vietnam, the United
States, Australia, and New Zealand-r-
-have to reshape is that the United
States is the aggressor in Vietnam and
that the forces now fighting there are
supporting an unprogressive regime dis-
interested in the welfare of the mass
of the inhabitants of South Vietnam.
It is the creation of this image,
accepted by a large number of the
people of the non-Communist world
(including the Labor Party in Aus-
tralia) as a true image, that is the
largest triumph of the Viet Gong and
its backers in the Vietnam war. For it
is quite clear that Hanoi does not
expect to win militarily. It expects to
win by increasing the acceptance in
the non-Communist world of that image
and, as a consequence, a mounting
determination to encourage the with-
drawal of the United States from South
Vietnam, whatever the price.
For this reason if for no other the
proposed Philippines conference has
an enormous importance. Quite clearly
the purpose of the conference is to
make clear that the United States and
those associated with the United States
in the struggle are not the aggressors
but aggressively striving for a peaceful
settlement which Hanoi and those sup-
porting it are equally aggressively re-
sisting. It is also to make clear that
far from supporting a non-progressive
regime that is disinterested in the wel-
After Washington, Manila
fare of the masses, the countries in-
volved are prepared to back with
money and assistance the rehabilitation
plans for a stabilising, developing South
Vietnam.
The Australian Prime Minister,
Harold Holt, was understandably a
quick and eager acceptor of the Marcos
invitation. Holt is the man who, as
head of Government, made the decision
unprecedented in Australia’s peacetime
history to use 20-year-old conscripts in
an actual shooting war.
No man, unless he was completely
inhuman—and Holt is a very human
man—could make a decision like that
unless he did so from deep conviction.
Holt’s conviction was confirmed
further by his analysis of what he con-
sidered to be the position in South-
East Asia. It was that due to the
shield of the United States’ presence
in South Vietnam the domino theory
was beginning to operate in reverse.
There was emerging in South-East
Asia a dynamism among non-Commu-
nist countries which if left free to in-
tensify—and the American shield was
ensuring that it was—could result in
the rolling back of aggression and the
eventual stabilisation of the whole
area.
Holt viewed it as the role of the
countries with a stake in the outcome
and he listed Australia as having a
stake larger than that of the United
States to see that this dynamism
was encouraged
It was this theme that Holt followed
he visited Johnson earlier this
year In Washington, and the evidence
that he found a ready listener in the
President is shown by the content of
Presidential speeches made subsequent
to the Holt visit. But encouragement
of this dynamism that Holt believed
he detected in South-East Asia had a
price. The price was that those who had
a stake in the outcome should assist
the growth of this dynamism.
The Philippines conference is a
recognition of the need for this en-
couragement. Part of the emphasis of
the conference is upon the practicability
of civil aid and reconstruction, not only
for South Vietnam but for the area
generally. Emphasis is also to be
placed upon the possibility of securing
negotiations aimed at the achievement
of a peaceful settlement that would,
in Holt’s words, be “just and endur-
ing.”
Whether the conference can establish
any basis upon which it can get nego-
tiations for a peace N settlement that
would be “just and enduring” remains
to be seen. But even if it can correct
the image of the United States as an
aggressor supporting an unprogressive
regime that has no basic interest in the
welfare of the ordinary people of Viet-
nam, it will be a major propaganda
victory for the Philippine participants.
The conference will assess the mili-
tary situation in Vietnam. It would be
unreal not to do so. But this will be
a secondary aspect of the Philippines
conference, and Australia has already
been assured that this aspect will be
considered upon the basis of the exist-
ing situation and without the aim of
obtaining support for an escalation of
the war on larger commitments by the
participants.
ALAN REID
Utzon’s Case
The people who think Joem Utzoit
got a rough deal when he was “forced
out” of the Opera House job are no
bunch of ratbags shouting about a
dead cause. There is some solid evi-
dence (some of it presented last week
in a publication by the Utzon in
Charge Committee) showing that
Utzon was unfairly blamed for many
of the disasters at Bennelong Point.
There is no doubt that following this
publication there will have to be some
quick talking from Mr. Stan Havil-
and and his Executive Committee, who
recently stated publicly that they were
unaware of Utzon’s plans to shorten
the legroom between the seats that have
been causing such a fuss in recent
months.
For the U-l-C publication details the
minutes of a meeting of the Opera
House Technical Advisory Panel
chaired by Professor Ashworth in
November, 1963, at which it “was
prepared to accept in principle” the
architect’s proposal to change the
seating arrangements in the major hall
by “closing up” the seating rows to
enable the required audience capacity
to be provided.
But this is the publication’s only
really impressive new point. There
is too much material in this statement
presented as a “verified” fact that is
open to attack; there are too many
half-truths and plain wrong facts
mixed in with a lot of useful material
to make it stand up as a serious justi-
fication of Joern Utzon.
It is simply not good enough, for
example, to say that none of the cost
rises or delays on Stage 1 were in any
way the responsibility of Utzon when
the evidence clearly shows that floods
of changes to existing drawings came
from the architect’s office to add to the
confusion created by the Labor Gov-
ernment’s decision to begin the Opera
House foundations before it knew what
was going on top of them. The
U-I-C, however, have proved one point
in their booklet: Utzon is not the only
person who has a case to answer ®
the Opera House affair.
MICHAEL BAUME


So who needs
another new airliner?
Big airlines do
To feed their main routes. To
operate auxiliary services where it
would be uneconomical to fly larger
aircraft. To rely on in emergencies.
Small airlines do!
To serve country routes with a
twin-engined, all-weather airplane
carrying 6-11 passengers in all the
comfort of a big, international airliner.
Big companies do!
To give their executives flexibility,
so they can go and see for themselves,
independent of airline routes and
timetables in their own, flying
conference room.
Charter companies do!
An aircraft that has all-weather
capability, that is so robustly built
and cunningly designed that
maintenance time is minimal and
flying time is maximum.
They all need the
eechcraft
Queen Air
6-11 seats. 252 m.p.h. Range of 1300
miles. Twin 340 or 380 h.p. fuel
injection engines. Retractable
undercarriage. Thickly upholstered
reclining seats. Deep carpeting.
Luxurious furnishing. Complete all-
weather navigational and radio
equipment.
HAWKER 0E HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Sole Beechcraft Distributors for Australia and
New Guinea.
General Aviation Departments at:
Bankstown Aerodrome, N.S.W. Parafield
Aerodrome. S.A. Archerfield Aerodrome, Old.
Jandakot Aerodrome, W.A. and
Civil Flying Services Pty. Ltd., Moorabbin, \Ac
Territory Airlines Ltd., Goroka, N.G.
18MMK
The Politics of Power
Fourteen months was too long for Victorian State Electricity Commission workers
to wait for a settlement of their pay claims, but the length of the delay does not
explain the recent power strike.
The log of claims served on the
SEC H months ago by the Trades Hall
Council included: A basic wage of
$43.30 weekly and a margin of $20.50
weekly for tradesmen fitters; four
weeks’ annual leave for day workers
and five weeks for shift workers; a 100
percent increase in shift allowances
and an 80 percent increase in power-
house area allowances; and a 35-hour
working week.
The strike was called when the nego-
tiations between the Trades Hall
Council, the SEC, and Arbitration
Commissioner Winter were almost over.
(A decision should be given shortly.)
The strike can only have delayed the
decision and harmed the union case,
but that provides a clue to its purpose,
which was political, not economic.
Since the control of the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council was lost by the
Communists and their supporters and
won by Mr. Mick Jordan’s non-Com-
munist Labor group, the Communist
industrial apparatus has been con-
structing an unofficial machine which
is independent of the THC. This is
comprised of “shop-committees” and
“shop stewards” who are now the Com-
munist transmission belts in Melbourne
and the Latrobe Valley brown coal
basin. The recent strike was a workout
for this new Communist machine. The
time was thought suitable because of
the length of the negotiations, and be-
cause if the decision due shortly is
favorable to the workers the “shop-
committee” organisers will seem to
have proved the value of their militancy.
What the strike leaders under-
estimated was the strength of the re-
action of THC Secretary Jordan, who
refused to be intimidated. He ordered
the strikers back to work and threat-
ened that the Gippsland Trades and
Labour Council could be disbanded if
some of its leaders persisted with
strike action.
The strike was partly an experimen-
tal flexing of muscles, partly a test
of Jordan’s strength and determina-
tion, and partly an act of frustration:
the latter because the Communists, and
the Trade Union Defence Committee
(an alliance of CP and extreme Left
ALP members) see their power slowly
waning throughout the Australian
union movement. Only in Queensland
are they and their allies assured of
success. Elsewhere their influence dim-
inishes, although they have one last
hope of a major victory at the next
ACTU Congress.
Some observers have assumed that
the likely attendance of a new Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union delegation at
next year’s ACTU Congress will pre-
vent a Left-wing victory. However,
they overlook the significance of the
locale, Melbourne.
A NUMBER of State unions cannot
afford to send all of the delegates to
which they are entitled, and usually
allow their union in the home State
to make up the numbers for them.
The unions likely to be involved in this
side-dealing at the next congress, such
as the Electrical Trades Union, have
Communist or extreme-Left counter-
parts in Melbourne who will fill up
the numbers and make strong bids to
control union caucuses on which they
were in the minority at the last con-
gress in Sydney.
Up to 100 votes could be swung in
this manner, more than sufficient to
wipeout the difference made by the
presence of the AWU delegation. On
the other hand, if the pro-Communists
are defeated on the next ACTU they
may be tempted to break with the
ACTU and the moderate State Trades
Hall Councils, and Trades and Labour
Councils.
The shop committee infra-structure
tried its bluff on Victoria recently and
will provide the organisational basis
for any breakaway movement in 1967
or 1968.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
Hands Across the Tasman
It’s hands across the Tasman for columnists, crystal-gazers, and traders at the
moment. With New Zealand’s Defence Minister Dean Eyre saying political federa-
tion of Australia and New Zealand “must come,” Australian Opposition leader
Calwell endorsing the suggestion, and New Zealand’s Prime Minister Holyoake
pouring lukewarm water on the proposal came some signals of stirring public
opinion, accompanied by increased co-operation on more fronts.
For while Mr. Holyoake says his
Government had never seriously con-
sidered political federation with Aus-
tr alia, and was never likely to, he spoke
approvingly of avenues of increased co-
operation, military and economic. Talk
°f political integration, significant in
this instance because raised by a New
Zealander first, represents more the
reflection of an attitude by Calwell and
Eyre than a series of workable regional
integration proposals. For few know
what integration really involves: Holy-
oake and the columnists have solely
shown what a few attitudes are.
The advantages are really mythical,
said the New Zealand Prime Minister,
and two and a half million New
Zealanders would be suspicious of sub-
merging their identity with twelve
million Australians, notwithstanding the
great affinity and affection between us.


WHY BUY A MANUAL
TYPEWRITER WHEN YHIS
ELECTRIC CUSTS NU MURE?
i—anHiiw
; :
iXuDtcououutur
i:
l; too9oQoo©CtLf^
0.. .' • I -y>.< :: | I *iP*x !
W‘
i"™
*#yf*
SCM 250 Electric Typewriter
s
ry>
SCM 410 Deluxe Electric Typewriter
SCM Electra 120 Office Electric
#:■ *;
■
SCM 75 Manual Space-o-matic
If there was ever a totally new concept in office typewriters this is it. The Smith Corona 250 is a
fully fledged automatic electric typewriter yet it's priced like an ordinary manual.
Compact as it is (4i" high x 13" wide x 12i" deep) the 250 is full size in the important work area.
It-types a full 11" line on a 12" carriage—which is wider than 75% of typewriters in use today—and a
full 14" on a 15" carriage.
The 250 is distributed and serviced in Australia only by Macdougalls. For nearly 50 years Macdougalls
have been supplying Australian Government and Industry with some of the world's most famous names
in office equipment. Just clip out the coupon or call your nearest Macdougalls office and they'll arrange
to show you the new 250.
SYDNEY: 56-58 Clarence St. 29-5111.
CANBERRA: 147 Newcastle St. ; F'wick. 95-1200.
BRISBANE: 71 Elizabeth St. 2-9498.
PERTH: 61 Stirling St. 28-1131.
PARRAMATTA: 15 Macquarie St. 635-8869.
MELBOURNE: 209-211 Lonsdale St. 32-4161.
ADELAIDE: 40 Grenfell St. 8-6361.
HOBART: 139 Elizabeth St. 34-2566.
□ I would like to see a brochure on
SCM Electric Typewriters.
□ I would like a demonstration of
SCM Electric Typewriters.
Name
Company
Address


atten-shun!!
cpa is
fastest
toFurope
(r
V
A,
Save hours flying time—with Canadian
Pacific! Jet direct from Sydney to Van-
couver, Canada! Then the fastest way to the
heart of Europe—over the shorter, non-stop
Polar Route. See your travel agent for details.
VANCOUVER GATEWAY TO ALL
CANADIAN AND U.S. CITIES! THEN
OVER THE POLAR ROUTE TO THE
HEART OF EUROPE LONDON IS
ONLY MINUTES AWAY!
FLY Canadian (Pacific AIRLINES J^T
Incorporated in Canada, limited Co. Canadian Pacific/Trains/Planes/Trucks/Ships/Hotels/Telecommuni-
cations. World’s most complete transportation system. Sydney office: 247 George Street, Sydney. 27-3411.
Melbourne office: 59 William Street, Melbourne. 61-3371. General sales agents—Ansett-A.N.A.
As one of the few to study the
integration concept, Victoria University
0 f Wellington political scientist Dr.
Alan Robinson finds significance in
people now talking about the question.
For once the talk has gone further than
the politicians. Wellington newspapers
have been carrying reports of public
attitudes detected by sailors of the Aus-
tralian warship Melbourne. At a time
when the dominant tone of Australian
comment on integration has been favor-
able, Sydney “Daily Mirror” columnist
Ron Saw swam against the current and
was quoted in Wellington papers, “New
Zealand can sink beneath the waves.”
So a local daily reported the sailors
finding a hardening of opinion among
their hosts on the streets, in the pubs.
“I mean after all we did come over
here on a goodwill tour,” said one
lonely looking sailor to me. Confusingly,
the evening paper reflected other
sailors’ satisfaction, and then 20,000
Kiwis visited the ship.
One only needs to flick through New
Zealand papers to see the bilateral
activities marking the time span be-
tween Eyre, Calwell, and Holyoakes’
statements. Tasman Pulp and Paper,
with their plans to break into the Aus-
tralian market, the speedy lifting of
quarantine restrictions on New Zealand
cheese by the Australian Minister of
Trade, Mr. John McEwen, and the
new status in Australia for the New'
Zealand cricket team are examples.
So far as the Free Trade agreement
is concerned, the New Zealand Press
Association reported that the first six
months’ operation of the Free Trade
Agreement had done nothing to im-
prove New Zealand’s balance of trade
with Australia. Obviously, time is
needed for the benefits to become clear.
But the fact that the agreement
exists, the symbolic presence of the
Melbourne, even the stormy reception
student papers in New Zealand chose
to give Eric Butler of the Australian
League of Rights in a pro-Smith’s
Rhodesia publicity tour show that inter-
dependence exists and will grow'. Per-
haps there is more than coincidence in
New Zealand setting her election date
on the same as Australia’s, November
26!
ANTHONY HAAS
8mm. Obscenity
Semi-private screenings and trade in
obscene movies, such as those seized by
Vice Squad men in Melbourne recently,
have always been much less widespread
in Australia than in the U.S. Until the
most recent episode, it has been 17
years since anything on a well-organised
scale in dealings with “stag movies” or
hotties,” as they are known in the
business, operated in Australia.
. The Melbourne raid resulted in the
seizure of 41 reels of Bmm. and four
feels of 16mm. film. All was silent
him, but some was shot in color, that
ranged revealingly and unashamedly
over just about every sex computation
possible.
Most of this had been made in Aus-
tralia, with just a few of the reels
apparently smuggled in from America.
In most cases, too, no attempt was
made to hide the identity of the “per-
formers.” The overseas films featured
Asians occasionally, but the local pro-
ducts showed only Australians or, pos-
sibly, Europeans. None of the per-
formers was known to the police. But
all are believed to come from Sydney
or Melbourne, where the movies were
actually made. It is known that the
outfit had-a sort of casting director who
lined up talent in advance of pro-
duction when a new movie was about
to be made. In the Australian films,
things like production, lighting, and
camera work were all of fairly high
standard better in fact that the
American ones.
The Melbourne vice men have been
on the trail of this particular travelling
show for more than a year. They got
a tip-off 14 months ago from a patron
who had seen it at a private house


X. vC
nmiT. V*
£ WISE
ONE OF A SERIES
The Rhine Riesling grapes used for Yalumba White Table
Wines are picked when the degree of sugar and acid are
in balance (12° beaume and 8% acid). Immediately after
gently crushing through a special roller mill to avoid
stalkiness the juice is completely separated from the
skins, seeds and stems. This reduces astringency and con-
tributes to the delicacy of the wine. Fermentation is care-
fully controlled at regulated low temperatures. The wine
is then carefully prepared for very early bottling to avoid
excessive exposure to air, in order to maintain its crisp
freshness and full Rhine Riesling bouquet.
YALUMBA CELLARMASTER SUGGESTS
YALUMBA CARTE d’OR
A vintage wine made solely from Rhine
Riesling Grapes grown in Angaston,
Eden Valley and Springton areas,
picked and fermented in the year
shown on the label. Yalumba Carte
d’Or is bottled while young, mainly
in August/September of the vintage
year, and then carefully aged in the
age-old cellars of Yalumba. Serve cold.
YALUMBA GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
This renowned red table wine is
blended from two varieties of grapes
Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz
(hermitage). Cabernet Sauvignon, a
light-cropping variety, gives a wine a
full bouquet and a soft tannin, while
the wine from Shiraz grapes imparts
a soft, round, full flavour. All grapes
used are grown in the Barossa and
McLaren Vale districts, where climate,
rainfall and soil quality are ideal.
Labelled with the vintage year.
mUMBA
trmmm
TABLE WINES
Famous since 1849
Vintaged by S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, S.A.
party in suburban Essendon ($3.00
entrance fee). Since then they know it
has been shown to invitation-only audi-
ences in Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide,
and at other sites in Melbourne. Sydney
is its business headquarters, but it i s
now believed that some of the noted-
name clientele it attracted there re-
sulted in giving it an immunity from
official police clamp down. The Mel-
bourne vice men felt more confident in
making their swoop when they did, but
none of the patrons caught in the act
of watching the acts will be named pub-
licly or called as witnesses. The Mel-
bourne showings have been at three
well-known hotels (entrance fee $lO a
head).
Also nabbed in that raid were the
names, addresses, and phone numbers
of about 200 Melbourne men who, in
recent months, had made purchases of
prints of the movies. Many are well
known in the professional and business
world. The suburbs of Toorak and
South Yarra crop up with extraordinary
consistency in the address lists. All have
been discreetly advised and asked to
surrender their purchases.
PATRICK TENNISON
Warringah
Sydney QC Mr. Edward St. John
may have won the Liberal Party’s pre-
selection for the blue ribbon seat of
Warringah. But judging from last
week’s edition of the “Daily News Pic-
torial,” a suburban weekly which cir-
culates in the electorate, Mr. St. John’s
extreme Right-wing opponents are not
prepared to concede defeat.
In a front-page story the paper re-
ported that “an influential group of
Mosman residents” was considering
supporting an independent Liberal can-
didate for the seat in the November
Federal elections. There were no
names given of any members of the
“influential group.”
Quoting an anonymous member of
the group, the report said that the
group was dissatisfied with the Liberal
Party’s methods of pre-selection because
the method gave too much authority
to the State Council of the Party. (The
selection committee consists of 30 local
members and 20 members of State
Council.) According to the group, a
majority of local delegates to the com-
mittee had not voted for Mr. St John.
Thus far it seemed to be a local com-
plaint with no hint of the differences
on South Africa’s apartheid policy
which figured so prominently in the
attempts by extreme Right-wingers to
rally opposition against Mr. St. John
before the pre-selection (THE BULLE-
TIN, September 24). There was, how-
ever, more to come.
Another reason for opposition to ther
endorsed candidate, said the report,
was “understood” to be Mr. St. Johns
association with the South African
Defence and Aid Fund. In a series of
neat non-sequiturs the complaints came
to the nub of the renewed attempt to


implicate Mr. St. John as belonging to
an association which is “pro-Commu-
nist.” This, because the South African
Defence and Aid Fund of which Mr.
St. John is president, is sponsoring the
current visit to Australia of African
leader Robert Resha. A letter signed
by “Local Liberal” and also on the
front page repeats the arguments in the
report but attacks Mr. Resha in greater
detail. This attack on Mr. Resha
is very similar to a roneoed pamphlet
which has been distributed by Mr.
Henry Fischer, editor of the “Austra-
lian International News Review” and
the president of the Beauty Point
Branch of the Liberal Party.
The attack claims that Mr. Resha
attended a meeting of the central com-
mittee of the Communist Party in
Moscow earlier this year, that he
attended a “Tri-Continental Confer-
ence” held in Havana in January,
where he opposed the “cruel aggres-
sion” of imperialism in Vietnam, and
that the African National Congress to
which Mr. Resha belongs is
Communist-controlled.
In a statement released last week by
SADAF, Mr. Resha strongly denied
the charges that the African National
Congress was Communist-controlled.
This and the other attacks were put
to Mr. Resha when he arrived at Mas-
cot Airport, Sydney, last week. The
SADAF committee had previously de-
cided at an emergency meeting that
if any of the accusations against Mr.
Resha could be substantiated they
would immediately withdraw sponsor-
ship of the visit. SADAF is bound by
its constitution to reject any member
or visitor who is not opposed to totali-
tarian ideologies such as Communism
or Nazism.
After an interview with Mr. Resha
they decided that the accusations
against him “have yet to be proved”
and that until they were SADAF
would continue to sponsor his visit.
Specifically SADAF pointed out that
during the South African Treason Trial,
which lasted from 1956 to 1961, the
prosecution made every attempt to
prove that the African National Con-
gress was Communist-controlled. The
court ruled there was no evidence to
show this when it acquitted all the
accused. SADAF said that the congress
leadership had not altered since then.
In the statement Mr. Resha admitted
attending the Tri-Continental confer-
ence in Havana and making a speech
of similar effect to the one attributed
to him. But SADAF claims “the views
he expressed in Cuba are shared by
many anti-Communists. The language
he used is the sort of phraseology used
by many anti-Communists in the newly
independent nations.” While SADAF
did not agree with the manner in
which Mr. Resha expressed himself it
did not accept that the speech proved
in any way that he was a Communist.
Mr. Resha agreed that he had spent
several days in the Soviet Union, but
denied that he attended a Central
Committee meeting or any meeting or
that he made any speeches while there.
After Mr. Resha’s visits to Cuba and
the Soviet Union he made a lecture
tour of the United States and Canada.
SADAF claims that the vigilance of
the American State Department in pre-
venting Communists is “well-known.”
Mr. Resha was granted a visa as he
had been on earlier occasions.
Where does all this leave the chances
of an independent Liberal in Warrin-
gah? Not very far advanced, it would
seem, as most observers agree that Mr.
St. John has the seat safely in the bag.
Furthermore if any member of the
Liberal Party supports any other candi-
date against the endorsed candidate he
automatically expels himself from the
Party.
What could be of far greater import-
ance is the harmful international pub-
licity to Australia that could result
from the campaign to brand Mr. Resha
as a Communist and SADAF as a
sponsor of Gommunist and pro-Com-
munist policies.
SAM LIPSKI
Tammer
"You've been at this school for three years, it's a bit late in the day to start thinking."


OVERSEAS
India 1966
By SIBNARAYAN RAY
(Head of Department of Indian Studies, University of Melbourne)
A little more than eight months ago, on January 24, Indira Gandhi was sworn in
as Prime Minister of India. The manner in which she was elected Leader of the
Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP) on January 19, eight days after Lai
Bahadur Shastri’s sudden death in Tashkent, was significant in more than one way.
Michael Brecher, Nehru’s biographer,
has described the process in great detail
in a fecent book which compares her
succession with that of Shastri*. It was
the first ever open contest for the leader-
ship of the CPP which revealed not only
deep divisions in the party (Mrs.
Gandhi’s rival Morarji Desai got 169
votes against her 355) but also an im-
portant change in the decision-making
process. Shastri was known to be
Nehru’s choice, even though this had
never been formally announced; but
his actual selection as Prime Minister
was decided by Kamaraj, President of
the Congress Party, and a few of his
close associates, the so-called “Syndi-
cate.” Shastri’s death caught the “Syn-
dicate” unprepared; there was no can-
didate acceptable to all its members.
Kamaraj again played a decisive role
in Indira’s election, but he had to rely
heavily on the support and co-operation
of the Chief Ministers of the different
States. Most significant of all, the Con-
gress Parliamentary Party, which in
1964 was a mere rubber stamp, asserted
its authority by voting in a secret ballot
and by showing that neither the Con-
gress Party President, nor the Syndicate,
nor the Chief Ministers had unqualified
control of blocs of votes.
JN a vast country like India, experi-
menting in political democracy, such
a development is not unnatural, nor, in
principle, unwelcome. However, its
hazards have also become clearer in the
past eight months. In the first place, the
Prime Minister and the Party President
seem to be gradually drifting apart. On
a number of important issues the two
have disagreed, e.g., on devaluation,
Fertiliser Agreement, and the size of
the Fourth Five-Year Plan. While the
Prime Minister’s decisions have natur-
ally prevailed, they have failed to
receive enthusiastic support from the
Party leadership.
Secondly, in the Parliament there is
a noticeable lack of warmth in the
relation between the Cabinet and many
Congress MPs. Since the Party has an
overwhelming majority in both Houses,
passage of official bills is, of course,
assured. But when members of the
Cabinet are under attack, often vicious
and in the nature of character-
assassination, little support seems to be
forthcoming from Party members. There
would seem to be a particular coolness
on the part of the CPP toward some of
the closest colleagues of the Prime
Minister, especially the Planning Minis-
ter, Asoka Mehta, the Food and Agri-
culture Minister, Subramaniam, and
the Finance Minister, Sachin Chaudd-
huri. It is not surprising that such an
atmosphere would tend to undermine
the authority of the Cabinet.
But much more serious are the grow-
ing dissensions in the Congress, especi-
ally at the State level. The develop-
ment is not new, but it has acquired
ominous proportions in recent months.
In some of the problem States, like
Kerala and West Bengal, parallel Con-
gress Party organisations have been set
up by important leaders who have
broken away from the official body.
In others, like Uttar Pradesh, Orissa,
and Andhra, the Congress Party,
though not formally split, is torn by
intense factional struggles. In Orissa
last month there was a Ministerial
crisis when the Deputy Chief Minister
with his 11 colleagues resigned from
the Government; it has been temporarily
patched up by Kamaraj, who persuaded
them to withdraw their resignations. In
most of the States there is little co-
operation between the Party leadership
and the Congress Governments. Where
such co-operation fortunately exists, the
advantage is not unoften misused in
conflicts with neighboring States over
inconsequential border disputes. Typi-
cal of this is the potentially explosive
current quarrel between Mysore and
Maharashtra, two of the otherwise
stablest Congress Governments.
Neither the Congress President nor
the Prime Minister has so far been
able to exert authority effectively
toward checking these divisive trends.
The erosion of Kamaraj’s influence on
the Party machine was revealed when,
in May, the All-India Congress Com-
mittee elected the Central Election
Committee, which will control Party
nominations in the next year’s general
elections. Two out of its five members
are reported to have been chosen
against his recommendation. On the
* Michael Brecher, Succession in
India: A Study in Decision-Making,
Oxford University Press, 1966.
Face of the World
Asia : Seven Allies in the Vietnam
war agreed to confer in Manila.
Indonesia was readmitted to the UN
after 19 months’ absence. Vietnam’s
elected Constituent Assembly, to
draw up a Constitution within six
months, met for the first time. Two
typhoons crossed Japan with winds
to 200 m.p.h., leaving 100,000 home-
less and over 200 dead. India’s popu-
lation passed 500 million. Japan’s
road accident toll for 1966 passed
10,000. An ECAFE conference on
water problems was held in Aus-
tralia. Japan’s first satellite failed to
orbit. Communist China began to
arm her young Red Guards, forming
them into Army units, while all
schools were reported closed and
textbooks burned as “revisionist”
writings.
The Americas: While repre-
sentatives of World Bank and
Monetary Fund countries met in
Washington to consider a new basis
for international currency, the U.S.
Republican Party issued millions of
“Lyndon dollar” notes labelled
“Great Society Funny Money” to
open their campaign for the Con-
gressional elections in November.
Following last week’s Rusk-Gromyko
talks, President Johnson and Chan-
cellor Erhard explored Germany’s
role in NATO and American troops’
continued presence in Germany.
There were race riots in San Fran-
cisco, where 2000 National Guards
were called out. Brazilian students
demonstrated against President
Banco in eight cities, and police
used tear gas and clubs freely. Prince
Philip arrived in Buenos Aires for
the 150th anniversary celebrations.
Europe: Prime Minister Wilson
called a meeting of 70 industrial
and trade union leaders and
promised to help boost falling in-
dustrial development in the U.K.
Britain’s motor industry, hit by the
Government’s economic squeeze, had
25,000 men idle by the weekend.
Britain’s circus king, Billy Smart,
and former Gaiety star Ada Reeve
died. Countries of the European Free
Trade Association, becoming restive
over Britain’s slowness to join the
Common Market, were threatening
to act without her. The Warsaw Pact
nations ended military manoeuvres
in Eastern Europe.
Africa: South Africa held over
legislation to ban multi-racial poli-
tics. In Rhodesia, Mr. Smith claimed
a quiet victory in that Britain had
sent representatives to talk at Gov-
ernment level, while they said their
job was to make British last-chance
terms unmistakably clear to him.
Bechuanaland became independent
Botswana.


When you move into
the Executive Seat...
Dodge Phoenix marks your success!
Dodge Phoenix is a car of elegance and distinction , styled in
impeccably good taste. With its 230 b.h.p. V 8 engine, si/ky-
smooth 3-speed TorquefUte automatic transmission ,
co-axial power steering and big, power-assisted self
adjusting brakes, it is a car of action for the man of
action. Inside, it is an "Executive Suite " oa?
wheels, Form-fitting, individual front seats with
headrests, passenger front seat reclines within
a 45° arc. Front and rear seat centre armrests ,
Luxury sponge-vinyl upholstery. Carpeted floors.
Tinted glass windscreen. Safety interior door
handles. Reading lights for rear seat passengers, plus
other luxury furnishings and equipment that set a new
precedent in prestige motoring. Phone your authorised
Dodge Dealer and he will call and demonstrate this superb car.
■- •
mm
1
SSsSsja
&
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
Dodge Phoenix AUTOMATIC V 8
WITH CO-AXIAL POWER STEERING AND POWER BRAKES, $5795 (£2897-10-0) TAX INC.


Forgive us for popping champagne corks these
days. You see we’re rather jubilant. It’s the
10th Anniversary of our first
service to Australia, and we’re in
our 34th experienced year. We like
to think now that we’re as
Aussie as the Outback, while
being as international as any
airline. And on the business side,
we still fly to 22 countries around
the world and treat you like a
Maharajah. As ever. Be with us in
this party mood! We want you to
enjoy life with us.
A/R-/ND/A
The Airline that treats you like a Maharajah — worldwide.
In association with BO AC and Qantas
Air India flies to Aden, Bahrein, Bangkok, Beirut, Bombay, Cairo, Calcutta, Frankfurt, Geneva, Hong Kong, Kuwait, London, Madras, Moscow, Nairobi, Nandi, New Delhi,
New York, Paris, Perth, Prague, Rome, Singapore, Sydney, Teheran, Tokyo, Zurich.
13830
A 199.107


WINE OF THE YEAR
1966
You may well ask how a wine can
be a "Wine of the Year" in the
year of its vintage.
And it can! If it is a white table
wine.
But more particularly if it is a
Houghton White Burgundy, from
Western Australia.
Why? Because on the Western
sea-board of this continent the
abundant sunshine, the generous
soil and the benign climate pro-
vide an earlier maturity of white
wines than anywhere else in the
wine-making world.
Fine wine-makers everywhere con-
cede this as a wholly fair and
reasonable claim.
And discriminating wine-tasters
everywhere will savour its truth
in the soft abundance, the refresh-
ingly youthful virtue of this new
vintage Houghton White Bur-
gundy 1966.
Try it soon. We believe that you,
too, will be convinced.
UOUQHfON
1966
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS
AT
CRANRROOK SCHOOL
An Independent
Church of England School
PULL DAY AND BOARDER SCHOLAR-
SHIP WILL BE AWARDED TO SUITABLE
APPLICANTS ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28,
1966.
A Number of Exhibitions and Bursaries
are also to foe awarded.
An Old Cranbrookians Association Scholar-
ship for sons of Old Cranbrookians
is also to be awarded
to boys entering
the sth Year of Secondary Schooling.
It is valued at $2OO per annum for 2 years.
Details from the Registrar. Cranbrook
School, Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill,
N.S.W. (Tel. 36-1110)
ot her hand, despite Mrs. Gandhi’s
efforts, plans to deal with the food
crisis on a national level continue to be
largely frustrated, among other reasons,
by the reluctance of the State Chief
Ministers to co-operate with intensive
food procurement programs in such
surplus districts as fall within their
respective jurisdictions.
The divisive trends in the Congress,
of course, reflect India’s endemic cen-
trifugalism, but they have gained
momentum with the weakening of cen-
tral authority both in the Party and
the Government. The monopoly of
political power enjoyed for nearly two
decades also works against discipline,
cohesion, and sense of urgency in the
Party leadership. Although the Congress
claims to have 17.3 million members
(among them 332,000 are described
as “active”), and although as recently
as May this year the Janata Party of
Bihar (eight members in the Parlia-
ment and 37 in the State Legislative
Assembly) decided to merge with it,
the weaknesses of the organisation are
hardly concealed.
There are signs that erosion has
already started, although its serious-
ness would be known only
after next February’s general
elections. Meanwhile, a limited
sample survey conducted in
the capital cities of India in
May this year by the Indian
Institute of Public Opinion
“shows a marked decline in
the ‘firm’ Congress vote.” The
drop is one of 19 percent in
three months (from 60 percent
in February to 41 percent in
May). Besides, “the fluctua-
tions in the Congress vote,
which were at most 20 percent, seem to
have increased to 30 percent.” Accord-
ing to the Director of the Institute,
“there is, it would seem, a major wind
of change.”
Does this mean that an effective
political opposition is at last emerging
in India which might provide a stable
alternative government? The answer,
on present indications, is no. The
Communists, who a few years ago con-
stituted the chief opposition, have split
into two Parties, and, according to the
survey from which I have already
quoted, their “firm vote,” which used to
be about 10 percent, has declined to
7 percent.
The other pole of the opposition is
provided by the Swatantra Party and
Jan Sangh. The former is the youngest
political Party in India, has several out-
standing spokesmen, fared remarkably
"well in the 1962 elections (in fact, it
replaced the Communists as the chief
opposition in the Parliament after the
split in the CPI), and has considerable
influence in Gujarat, Rajasthan, and
Chissa. In domestic policy it advocates
decentralisation and increased scope for
private enterprise; in foreign policy it
stresses the danger from Communist
China and seeks alliance with Western
democracies and the non-Communist
States of South-East Asia. The Jan
Sangh, which is strong in Madhya
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, broadly
shares these ideas, but in addition has
a markedly Hindu nationalist orienta-
tion. An alliance of these two Parties in
combination with several other local
groups and organisations may secure at
the most sufficient votes in two or three
States to dislodge the Congress from
office, but there is not the remotest
probability of their achieving a coalition
majority in the Union Parliament, at
least in the coming elections.
The likelihood, then, is that the Con-
gress majority may be significantly re-
duced in the Union Parliament; it
may even lose office in a few States;
and in several others its position
may become much shakier than in
the past. This may lead to increased
political instability, at least in some
parts of the country, which would
be fully exploited by the Communists,
both of the Right and of the Left.
In fact, in the past four months
there has been a fearful increase in
organised violent activities and demon-
strations, instigated in most cases
by the Communists and their leftist
allies. The country’s worst failure of
monsoons in 60 years has made an
already critical food situation
even more critical; and
although, thanks to massive
American aid, improved distri-
bution, and extension of statu-
tory rationing to all cities with
a population of over 100,000,
famine has been averted, the
dangers of an economic break-
down are far from over.
The prospects are rather
gloomy, but on the hopeful
side there are some important
factors that should also be
taken into account. Despite many set-
backs and slackening of the pace of
economic development during the Third
Five-Year Plan, the past 15 years on the
whole have witnessed significant im-
provements in several directions. The
average expectation of life has risen
from 32 to 50 years; per capita con-
sumption of food stuffs has gone up
from 1759 calories to 2145 calories a
day. More than 52,000 villages and
towns have been electrified compared
to 3700 in 1950-51. Seven hundred
thousand wells have been sunk in the
villages and 17,000 villages have been
provided with pipe water supply.
Ownership of 7.3 million acres of land
has been conferred on 3.3 million ten-
ants; 28 million new jobs have been
created; the number of hospitals and
dispensaries has gone up from 8600 to
14,600. The number of school-going
children has risen from 23.5 million to
68 million, of college students from .3
million to 1.1 million. The benefits of
these developments have reached a siz-
able section of the community, and
although they admittedly fall far short
of needs and expectations their contri-
bution to the beginning of a peaceful
socio-economic revolution in India
should certainly not be overlooked.
The draft outline of the Fourth Five-
Year Plan, which was presented in Par-
liament on August 29, shows a maturer


the four things
to look for in
storage
racking
§jt
4
STRENGTH. When you're buying racking, plan for future require-
ments. You’ll need good, strong racking that can carry anything,
whose stability increases with load.
FLEXIBILITY. Good racking has to be adaptable and preferably
self-locking. It is also important that it can be readily re-arranged
by your own staff to accommodate any sized products. There
should be no nuts or bolts to meddle with—they are time wasters.
PRICE. Truly efficient design produces the least expensive rack-
ing. Make sure that the price you pay will buy racking that will
do your job today . . . and tomorrow!
ADVICE. The more your rack supplier knows about your storage
problem the more chance he has of solving it. Acrow have the
best space consultants in the business. Phone them now,
without obligation.
beroWSM
A DIVISION OF
THE ACROW GROUP
OF COMPANIES
Sydney 648-2163, Melbourne 44-5768,
Perth 6-6916, Adelaide * 76-7611,
Canberra 9-3723, Newcastle 61-1396,
Brisbane 57-4178, Hobart 7-6775.
sense of priorities, even though its esti-
mates of available financial resources
are open to serious doubts. The most
encouraging features of the plan are its
accent on agriculture and'.family plan-
nmg. faking public lnyestifient alone,
the outlay on agricultures and irrigation
is roughly double the estimated ex-
penditure in the Third Plan. As to family
planning, the objective of reducing the
birthrate from 40 per 1000 to 25 has
been accorded top priority. All conven-
tional birth-control methods (including
voluntary sterilisation) are proposed to
be pursued vigorously, although the
emphasis sensibly will be on the loop,
Family planning centres (147 in 1955,
1649 in 1961) will be increased from
11 474 in i 9 65 to 48,405 in 1970-1.
. . . ,
distance between intention and
execution, however, is one of India s
most heart-breaking problems, and un-
less there is substantial improvement in
leadership and administration the hopes
raised by the Plan are unlikely to be
fulfilled. Indira Gandhi may play a
crucial role here. In spite of her some-
what strained relations with the Con-
gress President and some of the power-
ful Party bosses, and the cold attitude
of a section of Party members in Par-
liament, she has in the past ei«ht
months shown a firmness of purpose
and a capacity for bold decisions which
contrast with the rather wobbly char-
acter of Nehru’s leadership during his
last two years or Shastri’s during his
first eight months. The decision to
form a Punjabi state needed great cour-
age; that on devaluation indicates not
only boldness but refreshing realism. She
has given proof of independence and
determination in dealing with contro-
versial issues like the Fertiliser Agree-
ment and the Indo-U.S. Foundation
(both of which met with strong oppo-
sition not only from the vociferous
Leftists in the country but also from
influential sections of her own Party).
She has also shown understanding
and statesmanship in dealing with the
explosive problem of the Nagas,
and some initiative in improving
India’s relations with Pakistan.
I T . is, therefore, not inconceivable that
Indira may succeed in providing
that firmness and dynamism which are
desperately needed in India today.
Several immediate measures are called
for. She has some able and dedicated
Ministers in her Cabinet, but not a few
have proved to be so much deadwood.
In face of the mounting crisis in the
country, will she have the wisdom and
courage to reconstruct the Cabinet, get-
ting rid of the deadwood and bring-
ing more competent and forward-
looking people, if necessary from out-
side Party ranks? It is also necessary
firmly to squash the proposal for con-
ducting Union Public Service exam-
inations in the regional languages; this
ill-conceived recommendation will not
only further accentuate regional con-
flicts and loyalties but fatally under-
mine the unity and efficiency of the
Central Services. Most important of all,
she must take every step necessary to
enthuse and mobilise behind the
national developmental efforts the
growing number of qualified people
who are today frustrated and alien-
ated by lack of opportunity and sense
of purpose. India now has more than
twice the number of science graduates
(about 200,000) than any advanced
country except the U.S.A. and the
U.S.S.R. Given scope, an ideal, and an
inspiring program, they could provide
the leadership at various levels for
India’s democratic and technological
revolution.
But even if the Prime Minister suc-
ceeds in setting this energising process
in motion, there would be the two basic
problems of defence and foreign econ-
omic assistance. Like its predecessors,
the Fourth Plan depends heavily on
exterhal aid; and in view of China’s
emergence as a nuclear power, India’s
security has become more dependent
on her international relations than ever
before.


i InitH
■
I
//
t
,
hI
wm.
WS : M:vM ( m
■Vs.,
-
: ; ■ ' X ',' .
m i
-
'*■' ’ •:
Not for sale!
Mr. David Gordon, company accoun-
tant came into our showroom the
other day, and was astonished when
we wouldn't sell him an Addo print-
ing calculator he saw there.
Wanted to know why we had a
machine on display if it wasn'tforsale.
We explained, that although it was
for sale, there were 17 other models
in Remington's Addo range and
one of these might prove far better
for his particular needs.
And sure enough after talking
about the type and volume of work
Mr. Gordon's department handled
we found the Addo machine that
suited his needs exactly.
Which shows that there is always
a best Addo machine from the
range for your particular needs. This
is the one for sale !
You see, we aim to satisfy clients
the first time round. Can we add you
to the growing Remington list?
Remington Rand The Largest Business Equipment Organisation in the World
Sydney 2-0925 Melbourne 69-0660 Brisbane 5-4651 Adelaide 8-4631 Launceston 2-2358 Hobart 2-2886 Canberra 4-0885 Perth 23-2281
RR49I


LUCKY COUNTRY
REVISITED
Stupefied With Scepticism
By DONALD HORNE
IT is Saturday morning in Doubl
Bay, a suburb of Sydney. Among
the pavement shoppers, two youn
men with Beatle haircuts are carrying
a gilt-framed canvas five feet square
It is a portrait of Sir Winston
Churchill. Union Jacks are paintec
across the eyes, the cigar, and th
waistcoat; blue ensigns suffuse the
cheeks.
The young men march up the hil
past the brick battlements of the Sir
Loin Steak House 8.8. Q., where, be
neath the carriage lamps, a doorman
paces in medieval armor. Their attemp
to stage a Happening' for the Saturday
morning shoppers at Double Bay has
failed. No one has paid any attention
to them, except a fat man in tight blue
shorts, aloha shirt, and thongs, who
asked them the price of the painting.
The fat man is standing among the
Philippine rattan chairs, Indian brass
lampshades, and Finnish wooden toys
of the Unique Imports Shop (which
is next to the Romulus and Remus
fountain of the Arcade Roma). He is
holding a small can of imported Peri-
geux sauce and a big packet of orchid
compost. He is buying a stone garlic
jar. A young woman in cavalry-fawn
hipster pants is with him. She holds
a packet of Indian popadams. Aus-
tralians—the oldest suburban nation in
the world—are finally beginning to see
themselves as city dwellers and to
accept the fact that they can enjoy it.
People in Sydney now exchange recipes
for Boeuf Stroganoff, build express-
ways and espresso bars, complain about
their art dealers and go to exhibitions
of Eskimo stone carving.
Traditionally, Australians have felt
that they should identify with their out-
back, the “bush.” This is what was
supposed to be different about them:
that they lived in a strange old museum
of a continent where the trees shed bark
instead of leaves; where the kookaburra
laughed like a jackass; where the big
birds disdained to fly, and the kan-
garoos and wallabies had not learned
how to go on all fours. Australians
knew they were Australians because
there were koalas in their trees and
the duck-billed platypus, though a
mammal, laid eggs.
From the earliest days, however,
most Australians lived in city ports.
They soon found that the greater part
of their island continent almost as
big as the U.S.A. was scarcely more
than a huge plain with little or no
rainfall, much of it good enough for
cattle and sheep if you didn’t over-
stock, much of it good for nothing.
Rivers in Australia run very thin, and
some, most of the time, are dry. Nearly
all the people who do not live in city
ports cluster along the pleasant eastern
and south-eastern coasts, where the
low, wide mountains of the Great
Dividing Range absorb almost all the
rain. In and around the six State capi-
tals of Australia there have gathered
six communities that encompass most
of the population.
In the great distances in between,
there is nothing much in the way of
people. Although Australia draws most
of its export income from raw mat-
erials wool, foodstuffs, minerals —-
only one in ten Australians earns his
living from the land. Most Aus-
tralians work in the production and
distribution of their own consumer
goods.
Manufacturing is often foreign-
owned. Steel, sugar, paper, cement, and
glass are the only big manufacturing
groups dominated by Australian owner-
ship. What is strange about Australia
Donald Horne , author of “The
Lucky Country” was asked by
the American magazine “Holi-
day” to sum up his ideas on Aus-
tralia two years after his book
was written. The article appears
in the current issue of “Holiday”
and is printed here by arrange-
ment.
is not the duck-billed platypus but the
fact that it has more of its people
living in cities and towns than any
other nation, and one of the lowest
proportions of farmers to population in
the world.
Australia’s contribution to history is
the invention of suburbs for wage earn-
ers; ordinary Australians have been
commuting for four or five generat-
ions. In proportion to their population,
more Australians own their homes than
any other nationality. Since the 1880 s,
when the railways and tramways went
off into the dairy farms and Chinese
vegetable gardens outside the cities,
almost any Common Man has been
able to establish a four-, five-, or six-
room heaven of his own making. Lords
of their own backyards, among their
home-grown chickens and vegetables,
Australians quickly got their revenge
on the Industrial Revolution that had
sent them to Australia. In Australian
cemeteries there lie the bones of t]
first specimens of Mass Suburban. Man
We take a taxi to the St. Georg
Leagues Club, the biggest of ti
Common Man’s clubs in the suburb
to watch the grandchildren and grea
grandchildren of Suburban Man en
joying themselves on a Saturday morn
ing. The driver opens the front doo
of his cab so that I can sit next
him. “Hop in, mate,” he says, in an
accent that we later establish a
Hungarian. (About one in five of to
day’s Australians was born somewher
else.)
I tell him that there is nothing
quite like these clubs anywhere in the
world. “That’s right!” he says. “You’re
right there, mate! Another Australian
first.” He tells me how last year he
went to Fiji for his holidays and this
year, if he saves enough money, he wil
go to Tahiti. One of his ways of sav-
ing money is to buy half a bullock’s
carcass wholesale at the abattoirs
butcher it at home on his kitchen table
and pack the pieces away in his deep-
freeze.
The sun sparkles on the fountains
outside the St. George Leagues
Club’s $2,250,000 worth of building,
gardens, and equipment; its three flags
—the Union Jack, the Australian ensign,
and the suburban pennant (the standard
of St. George) ripple in a light
wind. Inside, the atmosphere is that
of a resort hotel: marble floors, polished
natural woods, flowers, green shrubs.
We walk around the eight bars, which
dispense about 250,000 gallons of beer
a year. Squash courts. Indoor bowls.
Lawn bowls. Billiards. A gymnasium
carpeted from wall to wall. A sauna
bath.
We end up in the ballroom, where
there is a cabaret four nights a week.
On the club’s payroll are a chorus
line, a singing group, a dance band,
and a small combo. With these it mixes
acts fresh from the nightclubs of
Europe, America, and Asia. On off
nights it puts on boxing, wrestling,
opera or classical music.
Twenty thousand ordinary Austra-
lian suburbanites, most of them average
wage earners, own this club. They pay
membership dues of less than five
dollars a year. Except for the food and
drink, they get everything free —Ice-O-
Rama, sauna baths, symphony orches-
tras. Within a few miles of all this there
are fifty or sixty other clubs. None of


them is quite so big, but all offer the
Common Man something of a Las
Vegas near his owm backyard.
The comparison with Las Vegas is
deliberate. Australians have found a
way to finance Ice-O-Rama and sauna
baths without appearing to have to pay
for them. The secret is to be found in
the machines that stand in almost every
room of the club—l 76 slot machines,
called “poker machines” or “pokies.”
From these the club earns most of its
$2,000,000 a year revenue, which goes
back to the owners of the club in the
form of holiday resorts, classical music,
and the wall-to-wall carpet in the
gymnasium. By this unusual way of
redistributing income—by being share-
holders in their own Las Vegas
Sydney people have been able to give
themselves a great deal of wdiat they
expect from life.
One of the club members picks up
his beer from the bar. He stops at a
dispenser and gets a headache powder.
He establishes himself near a glass tank
of tropical fish beneath which stands
a “pokie.” He swallows the headache
powder and sips his beer. He starts
playing the “pokie.” He has what he
expects from life on this Saturday
morning. In 1886 J. A. Froude said
of Australians: “It is hard to quarrel
with men who only wish to be inno-
cently happy.”
There is one sense in which Aus-
tralia quickly became the most egali-
tarian of countries: in allowing ordinary
people access to many of the diversions
of the rich. Not only are Australia’s
economic inequalities smaller than
almost anyone else’s, but its people
enjoy more spare time; this was the
second country after New Zealand to
establish the five-day week.
POR a prosperous, industrially devel-
oped society, Australians seem to
be developing the wrong ambitions.
Many of them ignore one of the most
important ground rules of the puritan
ethic; they just don’t want to get on
in the world. To get on would mean
adopting a life that would make them
unhappy. In a country where free Ice-
O-Rama is built on the proceeds of
slot machines, you don’t earn success:
you just win it if your number turns up
in the lottery.
“It’s like this, mate,” said the taxi-
driver who took me home. “There are
some pretty big shots who belong to the
St. George Club. Doctors and dentists
and all that. And Ted Walden. He’s
the Chairman of the Metropolitan
Water, Sewerage, and Drainage Board.
Ted’s a member. Well, what’s a big
shot like Ted Walden got that I haven’t
got, except a lot of headaches? We can
both belong to the St. George Club,
can’t we?”
In Australia the mythical Noble
Frontiersman was not a small settler
who won out in the end. He was
usually a failure from the start. First,
be was a convict. And then an odd-
job man of the bush a shepherd or
a wool shearer, a bullock-team driver
or a drover, a stockman or a boundary
rider. Then a gold-digger whose luck
ran out. Since then he has been a
unionist whose strikes failed. And a
soldier whose generals misled him. He
was not an individualist who enjoyed
challenge. He was a throwout who tried
to extract a little human friendship
from his bleak and finally disastrous
struggle with destiny.
When Australians settled for cultiva-
ting their own suburban backyards, the
traditions of fraternalism survived. Even
fourth-generation white-collar com-
muters still show an alarming rustic
openness of manner. When you meet
an ordinary Australian he wants you
to allow him to like you. He doesn’t
demand that you be as good as he is.
He is very fair about it. The entry to
his affections is simply to display your
sameness to him. This is the ideological
obsession of Australians: to reach for
the essential ordinariness and sameness
of man.
Not that a whole range of snobberies
are not available to those who cannot
live without them. There is still some-
thing of George Ill’s England about the
Australian concept of the landed gentle-
man. Gentlemen first landed in Aus-
tralia when George’s errors in colonial
policy had made it necessary to open
up some other Godforsaken place to
transport convicts to. The gentlemen
tried and failed —to establish the
leadership of Church and landed
interest over the people. Now they find
it hard to play a part in a world in
which the St. George Leagues Club has
erected its marble halls.
In the cities, unless they owm a
champion racehorse, the significance of
the country gentlemen is now largely
forgotten. Doctors are just about the
only occupational group left to be
granted social status by almost every-
body. In the latest estimate of pecking
orders, country gentlemen rank nine-
teenth - between other uninteresting
people like editors and heads of
government departments.
As you fly toward Broken Hill, in
the western desert of New South Wales,
you fly across hundreds of miles of red-
brown dust sprinkled here and there
with saltbush or bluebush. It seems
improbable that you are approaching
• the world’s most, fraternal oty Broken
Hill leaps up at you with flag’is <1
the head frames of the lead-zim mines.
Set in the middle of the town the:*,
dominate it like Rhineland {.astir-'.
Fifty or so light aircraft air at rhe
airport. A few shoppers have flown
in from the district as big as J i.mc ■ •
and Italy that Broken I Infs s* i» •
as a market, and as a base for a lly.cg
doctor service that flies 60,00!) mu- ■,
in a year, and for a radio school ih.-u
teaches children in isolated settleinew
in an area of half a million square, rmh >
ir pHE man who comes up to me in ih-
bar insists on buying beers and tell,
ing me about his city of 33,000 peoph
about the co-operative housing si her
that provide cheap finance (for n-
little houses in streets with names L
Chloride and Sulphide); about
city’s co-operative health scheme 0;;
provides complete health < art for 0 >
cents a week; above all, , about it
“lead bonus” that means that all dr
workers in the lead-zinc industry g. >
a bonus, based on the prosperity of tie
industry, that in itself is sometimes
higher than the Australian minimum
wage, and makes them the highest-paid
workers of their kind in the world, “if
you make a deal in this town, you sti< k
to it,” says the man in the bar Then
he breaks off. “Feel like a swim, mate:'”
We make the seventy miles to Menin
dee Lakes, where the town gets its
supply of water, in about an hour.
There are water-skiers and little sad
ing craft in this thirty-mile diverse u
of the tired old Darling River, win. h
straggles through hundreds of miles of
the arid back country of New South
Wales. Then we are back in town, in
my host’s club. The pokies are legal
now, but long before they were. Broken
Hill gambled as it wished. The people
of Broken Hill have put into practice
the Australian’s dream: in the-syndi-
calist, union-run town they show their
contempt for government by following
its laws only if they agree with them.
The illegal gambling schools ran openly
in Chrystal Street and Argent Street;
the thirty-six hotels served beer when
their customers wanted it, with no
regard for the law. If the Barrier In-
dustrial Council (the trades-union


body) didn’t like a policeman, it got
him transferred.
If it thought that a hire-purchase
company should not repossess a motor-
car or a washing-machine on which
payments had not been made, it told it
so. Anyone who threatens the well-
being of its members is still likely to
be boycotted out of town. When the
Barrier Council decided the price for
beer was too high it put a black ban
on the hotels. Its members paid the
supreme penalty: for three weeks they
went without beer until the prices
came down.
This brotherly disdain for authority
has the drawback of Big Brotherliness:
within the circle of brotherhood you
have to do what you are told. If the
Barrier Council does not like a maga-
zine, it declares it “utter filth” and boy-
cotts its sale. Its own morning news-
paper is compulsory buying for all
unionists. The council is prepared to
declare “black” any firms that try not
to advertise in its paper. Butchers who
do not use locally killed meat are de-
clared “black.” Anyone who breaks
such a ban finds that no bread is
delivered to his house, no milk; his
union mates are forbidden to visit him.
In Broken Hill the two faces of Aus-
tralian egalitarianism confront each
other in clear contradiction: the con-
tempt for external authority, and the
submission to internal group conform-
ism. This contradiction runs throughout
Australia.
ordinary attitude of an Aus-
tralian to authority is one of ex-
pectant distrust. Whether he is a
businessman, a union leader, or a pri-
vate person, he expects a “fair go,”
which usually means money, but he
despises the authority that is supposed
to give him a fair go. Australians do not
want great men. They do not want
excitement and rhetoric from their
Governments. They want money. Other-
wise, they want to be left alone. Poli-
ticians are assumed to be crooks.
All that can be expected of them is
that they should deliver the goods. The
politicians make few demands on the
people. Income tax in Australia is
lower than in almost any industrially
developed country. Politicians do not
even seek publicity. Often the concern
of their PR men is to keep their names
out of the newspapers. Australians dis-
trust politicians who make too many
promises. Sir Robert Menzies remained
Prime Minister for 16 years on the
lowest quota of promises of any con-
temporary political leader. In the era
of the Fair Deal, the New Frontier, and
the Great Society, Menzies did not
bother to coin a single phrase.
However, once an Australian is with
his mates, his individualism vanishes.
It is not in the U.S.A. but in Australia
that togetherness is strongest. One
opinion-study man ran both Californ-
ians and Australians through his attitude
tests. It was the Australians who seemed
to be more concerned with observing
conventional manners and acceptable
social forms. Australians prefer the
superficial. Their immediate and all-
round friendliness is a way of avoiding
the problems of personality and
intimacy. They don’t really want to
know people. They just want to get on
with them easily. As a suburban people
they have learned to avoid issues that
divide, and this means practically all
issues. They are charming chance com-
panions, and likely to stay that way.
Australians evade their identity crises
by losing their personalities in the light
and sun and air or even more often,
in the sea. They drain themselves of
personality in the Pacific Ocean. They
have been surfing almost as long as
they have been living in suburbs.
If Australian intellectuals look to
the crimson of the desert for their
symbols of innocence, ordinary Aus-
tralians look to the lonely beaches,
miles-long crescents of bare yellow
sand, fringed with steep headlands and
pounded by sweeping surf.
Affluence has meant that the pos-
sibility of blending one’s personality
into the natural environment now ex-
tends all over the continent. Person-
alities can be lost in 1250 miles of the
Great Barrier Reef, behind whose
shelter, in the warm water of the
tropics, the coral grows crimson and
lavender, purple and pink, light blue
and glaring yellow; and the fish fly,
the turtles wallow, and the whales
spout. Other personalities can be lost
in the special dazzle and brightness
of the snowfields; or in the summer,
among the alpine lakes and flowers;
or in the green pastures of Tasmania.
The air-conditioned buses now go
right into the flat yellows and reds of
the interior. Through Alice Springs,
the heart of the continent, where motels
and suburban houses are now springing
“Australia was discovered in 1965
by Donald Horne, Craig Mc-
Gregor, Max Harris , and Geoffrey
Dutton.”
up among the ghost gum trees beside the
white sands of the dry Todd River
Across the great meaningless plains of
nothing where men can still die of
thirst. Into the monsoon country 0 f
the lonely Northern Territory, where
in the “wet” the grass grows taller than
a man and in the long “dry” there
is as perfect a climate as you will find
in the world. Here the cameras come
out for the solemn birds, poised on
one long leg in a lagoon, or the herds
of kangaroos grazing on a plain; safaris
go off in search of crocodile and buffalo.
And at the last fringes of the continent
dipping into the lazy Arafura Sea, the
mangroves rustle and creak, a crocodile
flops into the water, a flock of birds
shrieks into the sky.
to the suburbs. In their country
of indolent climate, beckoning with
choice, for a long time Australians
remained true Anglo-Saxons, deter-
mined to enjoy their pleasures as little
as possible. Hotels shut at six. Liquor
was not served with meals. Betting was
illegal. “Filthy” books, such as “A Fare-
well to Arms” and “Brave New World,”
were banned. A woman’s place was in
the home. Subjects such as contracep-
tives and sexual deviations were taboo.
Even then Australians worshipped their
bodies and felt remarkable identity with
their oceans and mountains.
Australians were tugged two ways:
toward the stiff-collared demands of pro-
vincial respectability, and toward the
pleasures of the South Seas. They were
both puritan and pagan.
A lot of suburban life in Australia is
still boring to those who lead it, but
the puritanism that used to make it
even more drab is being washed away
by a change in style. Most of the period
sets have been erected that now seem
necessary to New World eating. Euro-
pean Inns, Western Saloons, Art Gal-
leries, Victorian Gin Palaces, Colonial
Dining Rooms, Trattoria, Bistros, Ships
Saloons, Music Halls, Dickensian Grill
Rooms, Apache Cellars, Tudor Ban-
queting Halls, Steak Caves, Mothers’
Kitchens, and Stagecoach Taverns are
available for contemporary dining.
There are even still a few carefully
restored examples of that period piece,
the 1930 s Night Club. In Sydney the
Government now looks as if it might
go so far as to legislate into action parts
of the Continental Sunday. Ennui still
fogs many of the thousands of suburban
houses, where housekeeping and garden-
ing can be so tiring that heads nod
even at the biggest reward for the week’s
activity the Sunday-night movie on
television. But in the Kings Cross
Village Centre a fountain now plays
outside the Betting Shop. There is an
open-air cafe near the Indian Bazaar.
The Tea House of the August Moon
(Chinese Food) lies across from the
Four Canoes (which specialises, of all
things, in New Zealand cuisine).
However, by “pagan” I meant some-
thing more than eating Mandarin
Almond Duck, Octopus Beurre Noir,
Chicken Satay, or Nasi Goreng to an
accompaniment of quartets, bands, jazz


groups, combos, tinkling on the Stein-
way) folk-singers, pianolas, or stars from
t he “Ed Sullivan Show.” As well as
their body worship and nature-
identification, Australians have de-
veloped a kind of do-it-yourself
Existentialism. Just as the earlier
Australia was found addicted to
socialisme sans doctrines, in modern
Australia there is a kind of existen-
tialisme sans crise. Australians often do
not believe anything very much: they
have learned to act as if such beliefs as
they have are true. They are more
concerned with the action they have
chosen than that the beliefs they have
are true. They are more concerned with
the action they have chosen than with
the believing. Existence is stripped
down to what a man feels and sees —
and this isn’t very much. There is man
and his surroundings. And that’s it.
For what it means: fewer Australians
go to church than most other peoples;
Australian women took more quickly
to oral contraceptives than any other
women; Australians practise cremation
more than any other nation.
Anzac Day the commemoration
of the Australian landing at Gallipoli
in 1915 is the big folk festival and,
in its ideals, Anzac Day is Stoic rather
than Christian: life must be endured,
perhaps with a little heroism, certainly
with a little friendship. When Anzac
Day fell on a Sunday in 1965 and
Church spokesmen complained that its
ritual marches and commemorative
open air assemblies would keep people
away from church, one of the Anzac
spokesman thundered: “Anzac Day is
bigger than the Churches.”
The Australian give-it-a-go spirit is
both sceptical and optimistic. It
doesn’t matter much whether you do
a thing or not. But you may as well
have a crack at it and “she’ll be
right.” This goes well with ordinary
Australians. They can accept a change
offhand if it’s thrust under their noses.
They seem to have little sense of
continuity with the past. Their sense
of impermanence is so strong that even
men in the street philosophise about the
future of Australia in Asia, as if they
were cheerfully talking about striking
camp when a stiff wind blows up and
moving somewhere else.
its best, give-it-a-go can operate
well even among people who run
things in Australia. It has led to some
splendid improvisations. One example:
during World War II (when Aus-
tralians improvised a whole armament
industry in double-quick time) the men
who had to produce twenty-five-pounder
field guns started their planning on the
basis of some diagrams in the London
Illustrated News.” But at its worst —
and that’s perhaps most of the time—
can lead to such an aggressive
of brainlessness and know-
it-all slapdashery that it is an affront
to the contemporary mind and a danger
to the future of Australia. “I dread
that phrase ‘She’ll be right,’ ” an Ameri-
can businessman told me. “Executives
here say to me, ‘She’ll be right,’ and
By January 20, 1788, the 11 tiny ships
of Australia’s First Fleet lay at anchor
in Botany Bay. None of the thousand
or so troops and convicts aboard those
ships liked the sandhills and ragged
bush they saw. Something had gone
wrong. They had been sent to the wrong
place. Governor Phillip went off in a
boat to look for something better.
Early that afternoon they rowed into
what he described as “the finest harbor
in the world, in which a thousand sails
of the line may ride in the most perfect
security.” Six days later, as natives on
the shores brandished their spears, his
ships sailed up the harbor to the cove
(just a few hundred yards from where
the Opera House is now building) that
Phillip named after the Home Sec-
retary, Lord Sydney. Shortly after noon
the officers and marines landed. The
colors were hoisted. Four glasses of
porter were drunk to the health of Their
Majesties. The marines fired a “feu
de joie” salute. Everyone gave three
cheers.
They didn’t know what was going to
happen, either.
what they mean is that they don’t
understand a damn thing I’m talking
about.” At times Australians stupefy
themselves with their own scepticism.
Scepticism itself becomes an illusion.
Australians spend significantly less
than most of the other prosperous
countries on educating their 15-to-20-
year-olds. In a world where braininess
is necessary to prosperity this hostility
to education may mean that Australia
will enter .the 1970 s a comparatively
less prosperous nation (compared with
other countries) than she entered the
19605. So far Australia has got by very
largely by living on other people’s ideas.
The older generations of Australian
Top Persons have little sense of ex-
ploring the possible for themselves.
They often distrust such Australian
originality as there is, with the' sus-
picion of the old-style colonial for the
initiative of the Natives. One of the
efficient firms in Australia sometimes
finds that useful findings of its research
branch are of no interest to fellow-
Australian businessmen. It sells them to
overseas firms and they come back later
to Australia on license. There is a
hatred for expertness even in de-
veloping stolen ideas. One view of
Australia is that if the choice is be-
tween ordinariness (which includes a
mindless non-expertness) and pros-
perity, Australians would choose ordi-
nariness. They are even more concerned
with style than with efficiency.
As you stand on the construction
site df the Sydney Opera House, out on
a peninsula that juts into the Harbor,
and look up at this sculpture fourteen
stories high, you understand how people
felt when Cheops was building his
Pyramid, or Jehan his Taj Mahal. This
is the most extraordinary building of
the age. It is give-it-a-go architecture
carried out with a mixture of boldness
and meticulousness rare, not only in
Australia but anywhere but Aus-
tralian impatience with detail pushed
architect Joern Utzon into the con-
struction of the Opera House before
anyone had figured out if the concrete
sails could be made. The foundations
were begun before there was a plan for
the roof. Work now proceeds on the
roof before plans for the interior con-
struction are finished. Strangely for Aus-
tralia, not only more imagination but
more expert thoroughness has gone into
the Opera House than into almost any
other building of the age. But perhaps
the strain has been too much. This year
the Government quarrelled with Utzon
and he resigned in protest.
'J'HERE has been the beginning of a
cultural breakthrough in Australia.
In Sydney there are probably more
theatres and art shows than in most
large American cities. Consider Patrick
White and several dozen other novel-
ists; about three dozen volumes of verse
each year, at least a thousand public
performances of professional music a
year; about a dozen and a half little
magazines. But there is little reverence
toward the arts. And, though there is a
great deal of disillusion, there is not
much of the 20th-century’s exploration
of complete despair. In the quality of
intellectual life there is an extreme
empiricism. Intellectual issues are cut
up into small pieces and become very
dried. In some fields of scientific re-
search Australians excel (for example,
radioastronomy, medicine, agricultural
science), but the general quality of
intellectual life is as flat as most of
Australia.
Yet Australia of all Western soci-
eties now has to make imaginative
decisions about practically all of the
most publicised dilemmas of our time. It
is both a developed society and an
underdeveloped country. The pressures
of anti-colonialism, social revolution,
emergent nationalism, anti-racialism,
over-population and underprivilege in
Asia have a meaning for Australia
that they do not have for any other
Eastern nation, because Australia,
geographically, is part of Asia. All of
Australia’s conventional wisdoms have
been proved wrong at once.
Australia has been a lucky country;
it has not deserved all its prosperity.
It has been able to afford to suppress
cleverness because it has been able to
live on the fruits of other people’s
cleverness. Its preference for the styles
of ordinariness means that it is not fully
“Westernised.” Yet it may be lucky
again in its younger educated people.
They are already showing more con-
cern with style, and with education.
They seem to be spared the stultifying
scepticism of their fathers and grand-
fathers.
However, for the moment, they are
puzzled. They don’t know what is going
to happen.


ONE MORE
WEEK
Creation
LAST FRIDAY in “The Sydney
Morning Herald” Dr. Duncan Chap-
pell, of the Sydney University Law
School, wrote: “ ‘Crime waves’ are
phenomena which are often nurtured
and sometimes even created by inten-
sive publicity in the Press and other
mass media.” Just the sort of theory
which is often nurtured, and sometimes
even created, by academics and other
mass-educators.
Glass houses
THESE DAYS it seems that people
who live in glass houses are likely to
get their property stolen. Supermarkets
and shops with large areas of open
display have been warned that by
encouraging impulse buying they are
also encouraging impulsive shop-lifters.
Now banks are being told that if they
have glass fronts and rubber plants to
make people feel welcome, all the visi-
tors they get might not be welcome.
In view of recent events, a warning
seems fair enough. However, one
admonition last week came from the
president of the Non-Tariff Insurance
Association, Mr. R. M. Harris. “Mod-
ern building constructon indicates a
total disregard of the need for adequate
protection against theft,” he said. “One
new factor which possibly contributes
to this increase is the fashion in glass
walls, which are extremely vulner-
able.”
Insurance companies don’t handle as
much cash and securities as banks, but
they do handle some. Looking at the
offices insurance companies put up
these days, you might say that people
who live in glass houses shouldn’t
throw stones.
Mr. Morphett has not yet seen Alan
Hopgood’s “Private Yuk Objects”
which opens at the Phillip Theatre on
October 8, but hopes to pick it U n
during its Sydney season. A trip to
Brisbane filming for ABC television’*
“Spectrum” (he is ABC staff, a " d
apparently, quite content to be) meant
he missed the opening night of
“Assassination” and the transmission of
“Objector.”
Mr. Morphett says he fits writing
in with television simply by working a
seven-day week. “I just can’t afford to
write full-time,” he said. “But one of
these days I might take time off and
really write a novel.”
And what of the ill-fated
gerald?” “Very irritating,” says Mr,
Morphett with considerably more non-
chalance than he could have sum-
moned up last year when the novel, his
second, was withdrawn by Jacaranda
Press after printing—in fact, hours be-
fore the official launching party. “Fitz-
gerald” was the story of a raffish, dis-
reputable painter. There is an
eminently respectable painter named
Paul Fitzgerald in Melbourne. “The
fact that I had never heard of him
probably didn’t help,” Mr. Morphett
admits.
The book has since been under con-
sideration by British and American
publishers, but Mr. Morphett admits
that it is hard to find one who will
publish a novel by a little-known Aus-
tralian writer when there would be no
Australian sales to look forward to.
What might be to the layman the
obvious solution to change the name
of the leading character would not
help. The book would still be recog-
nisable as the book which caused the
upset in the first place.
“But the problem for authors re-
mains,” he said. “What do you call
people? Now someone named Gold-
finger has turned up in Europe.”
Mr. Morphett has finished his third
novel, the story of a family business.
There are no surnames.
No More Ducks
THE ABC has finally hit its ducks on
the Hawkesbury on the head. Or, as
the Commission puts it, interludes have,
to a large extent, been replaced by pro-
gram announcements. This means that
in a clear week’s viewing you can easily
see six or seven trailers for the same
program, hardly less monotonous than
washing hanging in the main street,
Trailers for some programs, such as
“Impact,” have been shown two min-
utes before the actual program, a fairly
confusing formula.
The ABC has always had a problem
about what to do with the time which
other stations fill in profitably with com-
mercials. In more leisurely days it often
allowed programs to trail on at will.
Now it more frequently seeks a com-
mon junction. For example, it likes to
begin “F. 8.1.” on time to pick up
insatiable viewers who have just fin-
ished with “The Man From
U.N.C.L.E.”
Those interludes the ABC now use
Playtime
HAVING gained one sizable reputa
tion on the strength of having a nove
“Fitzgerald” remain conspicu
ously unpublished, Tony Morphett is
now making a bid for a more solidly
based name for himself. His television
play “Objector” is being shown in the
ABC’s • Australian Playhouse in some
States this week, and a one-acter, “I’ve
Come About the Assassination,” is in
the series of Australian plays which
opened at the Jane Street Theatre, an
offshoot of the Old Tote, Sydney, last
weekend.
Even here the going hasn’t been
entirely straightforward for Mr. Mor-
phett. “I’ve Come About the Assassin-
ation” was originally done for Aus-
tralian Playhouse, which found it rather
too “strong meat” for them and sent
it along to Robin Lovejoy, who judged
it just his dish. “Objector” began life
as a short story for the Adelaide Festi-
val literary contest.
“I’ve Come About the Assassination”
is about a young man planning to
assassinate a head of State. The young
man’s motives are very mixed the
head of State is his father. It was
written, Mr. Morphett says, “a good
while after Kennedy’s assassination”
and was, of course, finished long before
the incident involving Arthur Calwell.
The genesis of “Objector” is more
simple. It was written soon after the
Federal Government introduced con-
scription for Vietnam, but Mr, Mor-
phett claims it is not “a propagandist
play.” It is about a young man in holts
with his father about his unwillingness
to be conscripted. The young man is
mostly concerned that he is not being
allowed to make up his own mind on
the matter. The father has more of
what Mr. Morphett thinks of as “Aus-
tralian fatalism”- if you have to go,
you have to go but also some sneak-
ing fears that if his son appears in
court it may be an embarrassment to
him at the RSL club. “Both, of course,"
Mr. Morphett says, “are in their way
wrong.”
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
A politician s pronouncements have
a news value m direct relation to his
prospects of Power.
lain MeLeed, British MP.
examining the Jyprof o ESu”e%hat
emphasising 1 * Ihe "female ta "a"ns
couples in compromising positions.
—Senator Oair.
Please don’t embarrass us too much
with pay claims now. Help us (the
ALP’s majority in the Sydney City
Council) to win the boundaries fight,
and you know you can rely on us
to look after you.
Lord Mayor Armstrong to Municipal
Employees 1 Union.
T . .... ~ ,
•I believe in striped power, black
and white together.
—Martin Luther Kin®.
Demands that the transitional
homes for Aborigines at Walgett
should be sewered are quite absurd.
N.S.W. Chief Secretary, E. A. Willis.
pofishelTchafilt fit deliberate 6 *
“ ™' vl " on °' < * ar * h * m
A banker without money is like
a doctor without pills.
” President or the o World Bank,
We are planning a London “Oz”
something between “Private Eye”
a °d the “New Statesman.”
— Richard Neville,
v n n n „ n .._u t. , ,
. „ ua f P eo P* e see Jesus as a baby
P Bethlehem and then as an adult
in Jerusalem, but never as a teea-
ager in Nazareth.
—Methodist minister William Alberts.


seem better planned and programmed,
f or example, “Tales of Hoffnung,”
“Build Your Own Boat,” and a series
lust begun with Stanley Lipscombe
talking about objets d’art in his “The
Australian Women’s Weekly” manner.
Almost by Design
STUART DEVLIN, designer of our
decimal currency, couldn’t find any
better way to get across his message to
an industrial design seminar in Perth
last week than by describing a night
at an Australian motel.
The bedside lamp faced upwards and
burnt his fingers when he tried to turn
it toward his bed. The bed had
wooden edges, guaranteed to wake the
soundest sleeper. Getting to the lava-
tory was an obstacle course because of
two viciously self-closing doors. When
he flushed the lavatory, his thumb
disappeared down a hole and emerged
cut and bleeding.
Getting the door open by grasping
the handle was impossible because of
bad design, but, fortunately, Devlin
said, there was a gap under the door
you could get your foot into.
Little Asia
“RIGHT,” said Sir Charles Moses
when he saw the view from his new
office at the Asian Broadcasting Union,
where he is Secretary-General, “you can
block those two windows up straight
away.” So they did, and his thoughts
are no longer interrupted by the sound
of constant flushing from next door.
He has been six months changing
the decor from a traditional office with
glass partitions to a more elegant place
in which he can entertain. Lady Moses
says he took a long time because he
kept fiddling with the curtains. The
beige linen was wise in view of three
devilish, bright red masks that hang
between them. The Grandma Moses
(no relation, but they did meet) print
he chose for his assistant’s (Miss Cook)
curtains would have been fatal.
There is nothing Western about Sir
Charles’ room. Except, perhaps, his
desk, which is big enough for ping-
pong and on which he keeps a huge
assortment of leather desk accessories.
Otherwise, the feeling is Eastern. From
flower arrangements, by courtesy of
Miss Cook, to the picture painted on
eggshell and rice which, when he got it,
had printed in the top right-hand
corner in heavy black “FROM RADIO
VIETNAM” and in the bottom left-
hand corner in heavy red “PRE-
SENTED BY VU DUC VINH,
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF RADIO
VIETNAM.” Rudy Komon’s restora-
tion man made a quick job of obliter-
ating that.
We examined his other objets d’art.
There were lots, and each one had a
story, so it took a long time to get
round the room. What sticks in the
mind was how little they seemed to
cost. An ebony head he’d picked up for
ten shillings, some of his old regiment’s
silver—an inkpot for ten shillings, a
silver tankard for the same price—a
carved animal for ten dollars. It is
not, he said, that he enjoys buying a
snip, he simply doesn’t believe in paying
more for something than it is worth.
Anyway, it is in this room that Sir
Charles puts in all hours toward the
improvement of broadcasting in Asia.
As he said, hard work is the only way
to achieve anything. That’s what got
him from market gardener to car sales-
man to ABC announcer and, five years
later, to general manager of the ABC.
And in this room he hopes to give
luncheon parties. Miss Cook cooks mar-
vellous Chinese food, but she’s up to
her eyes with work. He hopes his new
Chinese secretary, who goes by the
unlikely name of Suzy Wong, is good
at cooking.
What might surprise his guests is
the contents of the wardrobe. We knew
he was a boxing champion, a Rugby
man, president of the N.S.W. Athletic
Association, and an expert wood-
chopper. We didn’t know he still made
such a thing about chopping. There is
nothing like it, he says. It’s a challenge
and wonderful exercise. “I’ll show
you,” he cried, leaping toward the
wardrobp. “I’ve an axe here.” He was
wrong. He had three, which he tested
fol’ sharpness and swung in an alarm-
ing manner toward the floor. He also
keeps five in the car and two more
at home.
The Tetters of Trevor Gooseboot
(Intercepted by Will Rushton)
Dear Mother,
I received a letter from Dr. Pearson saying that he had placed you under
heavy sedation for the duration of the Party conferences. I think this is
extremely wise; in fact I have written suggesting that he keeps you thus until
your Mr. Heath is carried shoulder-high into No. 10 and hurled bodily through
the french windows at the rear.
The cricket season has started here, but not without some controversy. Bobby
Simpson, the Australian skipper, is, of course, something of a figure down
hereunder, and there was some distress when J. L. Manning, the flatulent
sports columnist of the “Daily Mail,” attacked his recent book as “racist.”
Misquoted cries of “vermin” resounded. The “chucking” controversy was all
the rage in England last year, as you will remember from your frequent demon-
strations against Charlie Griffith. (Had he been Caucasian I doubt whether
you would have been so vehement, but you must recall some of the incidents.)
Personally, I think it will be extremely unfortunate if the same kinds of witch-
hunt occur in Australia. The sight of a cricket ground covered with a litter
of arc-lamps, cameras, wires, cables, and seemingly numberless technical
“johnnies” filming suspect bowling actions was extremely disturbing. When a
game of cricket has to be discontinued because the light is not strong enough
for Technicolor filming, the wedge is fattening.
Cricket, as I am constantly reminding my New Australian friends, is only
a game. But I did say that once about Rugby League and still bear the facial
scars.
Yours ever,
Trevor.
P.S.: Disregard this letter if you are still under sedation.


This
Air Marketing:
guide is free.
■ir—
w%
$
m
Published in English,
French, German, Italian.
Japanese. Spanish
This months issue lists just
the kind of overseas selling
or buying offers you’ve
been looking for!
AM
What do you want to
sell? Or buy? Last year, our Clipper
Cargo Horizons published more than
5,000 worldwide buying and selling
opportunities in six languages.
Clipper Cargo Horizons was seen by
more than 178,000 businessmen
around the world. Your buying and
selling wants can be listed . . . and
read, too. Find out how. This
monthly magazine is just one of a
host of our free services to shippers.
Shouldn’t you know more about
Air Marketing the great new
moving force in worldwide business?
First step: Fill in the coupon and
mail it to us today.
Clipper, Reg. U.S. Pal. Off.
World’s largest air cargo carrier*World’s most experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST 'ROUND THE WORLD
PAIN AM CARGO SALES,
Kingsford Smith Airport, Sydney (67-1384)
or
133 Exhibition Street, Melbourne (63-9077)
n
□ Please send me further information
about Air Marketing and how it applies
to my business.
□ I’d like to receive a free copy of
Clipper Cargo Horizons.
□ Please send me information describ-
ing how I can have my product listed
in Clipper Cargo Horizons.
Name
Title
Company
I Address
I
PASI7


4 -, v
4
19
I 1
:
Im pwusi
: ra 3
|.|| mmmm.
I f
Is it worth
maturing
Mount Rufus
Tawny Port*
for 15 years?
We’re sure you’ll
agree it is...
Seppelt Mount
Rufus Tawny Port
is a smooth
mellow port... aged
in big wood at
Seppeltsfield in the
Barossa Valley.
Winner of a Diploma d > Honneur at
the Montpellier Wine Fair in
France in 1965.
B. Seppelt & Sons Pty. Ltd.
Adelaide • Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Perth
C 556
From Scratch
to Absolute
Perfection
Sheila Scotter
By DAPHNE GUINNESS
PEOPLE say it’s all right for me,”
said Sheila Scotter, editor of
“Vogue” Australia and New
Zealand, “but it’s not. I’ve got 39-inch
hips.”
Her other fashion problem is an
obsession with white, which, she says,
runs up what is probably the biggest
cleaning bill in Australia. At least 12
dollars a month. Don, the cleaning
man, knows her wardrobe inside out.
“What about that white mac, Miss
Scotter?” he’ll say, “haven’t seen it for
some time. Isn’t it getting dirty round
the neck?”
She spends $4OOO a year on clothes
and gives away what she is tired of to
The Smith Family or a less well-off
relative. She has four fur coats. One
mink, one ermine cardigan, another
cardigan of unspecified fur, and a floor-
length rabbit in the making with slits
up the sides. Jewellery leaves Miss
Scotter cold. She would rather buy
paintings, which, in fact, she does.
“Vogue” is on the fifth floor of an
ugly building in Clarence Street, Syd-
ney. Its front door is shiny black and
on it hangs an elegant brass knocker.
Inside, the decor is black and white
from the chessboard floor up. They
thought Miss Scotter mad to paint
the rafters black, but she points
out triumphantly that now no one
can see the pipes, and as for
those miserable little office desks
they gave her, well, a coat of black
paint has worked wonders there, too.
She was herself a vision in black and
white, and we felt fearfully Technicolor
in a cinnamon-brown dress with its
orange-flavored top which, until then,
had always been worn with great
panache.
JjUNCH in her office. “I expect you
thought it would be a ghastly sand-
wich,” she said. It was ham, salami,
fennel, radishes, mushrooms, biscuits,
cheese, red wine, and coffee, and taken
on a circular table which is her desk.
She has a splendid view of the wharves,
and between pauses in the slightly more
sophisticated movement of fashion has
learned quite a lot about ship traffic,
including the difference between one
and three toots from passing tugs.
Miss Scotter has edited “Vogue” for
four years. In that time, she says, circu-
lation has risen from 34,000 to 44,000,
and the price is now about to rise, too.
Another five cents. When OZ put
theirs up they did it with tremendous
flair and said something about a “Great
New Big Wonderful Price.” She would
love to do that, but has chosen a more
decorous method, though certainly not
an apologetic one. “Vogue,” she says,
still gives tremendous value for the
money.
Her own background is fashion buy-
ing and organising, and it was this
ability that got her the job as editor.
“It would be presumptuous of me to
say I was a writer. An organiser, yes,
and, if you like, an ideas person. I am
never short of ideas, they flow from me.
I carry a pad with me all the time and
jot them down.” Miss Scotter is a fast
and animated talker, particularly—and
as should be hoped—on the subject of
fashion. She says anyone can send her
up personally, but when they send up
fashion it makes her furious. For
instance, someone might write after
they’d heard the “Let’s Find Out” radio
program on which she appears with
Ellis Blain and say “Miss Scotter’s talk-
ing through her pretty little hat about
the political situation in wherever-it-is,”
and she says, she probably is. “But
attack me on my own subject, about
which I really know something, well,
that’s quite different.”
In a way, Miss Scotter’s empire up
there on the fifth floor is like a little


MaximjauL
perfection
£*£«**£
w^zz^^z^^zz
■ : .;:
4»
%
Give Your Slides “Paximat Per-
fection” Treatment. For extra col-
our brilliance, superior optical
systems ... coolness and ease of
operation .. . magazine load .. .
reliability and largest range of
lenses to suit you. See your slides
large as life, twice as colourful.
Regular or quartz iodine, projec-
tion lamps. Discriminating people
choose Paximat world’s largest
selling projector.
Paximat Triumph 4 models
Give ample illumination for nor-
ma! home use, cool running, pop
free, jam proof operation.
* 300 W model £36.0.0 ($72)
* 12V/100W Cold light £42 ($B4)
* 24/150W (same light as from
the DeLuxe N 24) £47.0.0 ($94)
* or popularly priced Pico 12V/
50W cold light
£29.15.0 ($59.50c)
Paximat DeLuxe N 24
World’s most up to date model . . .
fully automatic . . . variable self timing
device . . . remote control focus . . .
forward and reverse slide change. “Cold
light” 24V, 150 W lamps yield light
output of I,OOOW . . . interchangeable
lens . . . synchronised for tape re-
corder commentary.
• Paximat DeLuxe N 24, £79.10.0 ($159)
• Paximat super N 24, same as DeLuxe,
but without self-timer £73.10.0
($147)
"imimf
Paximat Electromatic 300 W
The classic automatic model 300 W light
output gives 500 W brilliance. Remote
control focusing and forward and re-
verse slide change .. . interchangeable
2.8 lens attachable to tape recorder.
Only £54.4.0 ($108.40c).
SEE THEM AT ALL LEADING CAMERA DEALERS
FREE Brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTY. LTD.
153 Barkly Street, BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
country with her as queen. She is
given complete freedom to do what
she likes (“If I wanted to print
Vogue’ upside down no one would
slop me”), but at the same time she is
t..'vful, when talking, to say noth-
ing that would offend the fashion indus-
try .md, in this sense, “Vogue” fashion
journalism is weak, in that it is not
cinicai. She might personally think
Paris disappointing this year, but
wouldn't sav so as editor of “Vogue.”
Site bt-'ke off now and again to
emphasise that if such-and-such a
remark were quoted it must be abso-
lutely accurate —e.g., “there are some
very good fashion buyers in Australia,”
from which the deduction is there are
also some very bad ones.
She has made only one public
speech and that was last year in Can-
berra. It must have been a nightmare.
She addressed the Textile Council of
Australia. However, she is pleased to
report that one idea of hers, that
there should be a Fashion Council,
has been put into motion.
The “Vogue” aura isn’t nearly so for-
midable as outsiders imagine, at anv
rate, not in Australia. The old chest-
nut that staff need a private income to
survive appears to be a fallacy. “Let
us say,” said Miss Scotter, “that what
we pay compares favorably with other
magazines.” What staff does need i s
talent, and to this end either Miss
Scotter or someone sees everyone who
calls. “You never know when a genius
might come through that door, and I
often think of Carmel Snow, who first
published Truman Capote. Think if
she’d turned him away. Oh, no. They’re
all seen. Models as well, you know. I
might see a face and think gosh, that’s
wonderful even if the girl doesn’t know
herself.”
Whatever their job they are trained
“The ‘Vogue’ Way—Right From Scratch
to Absolute Perfection.” The only
trouble is that while Miss Scotter’s staff
are desirable products and therefore
snatchable material for other magazines
she, when the need arises, has no one
else to snatch from. At the moment she
is sitting tight with a very satisfactory
team, but, oh! she says for some com-
petition in the form of another Aus-
tralian monthly along the lines of
“Queen,” “Harper’s Bazaar,” or “Nova.”
OFF he job, Miss Scotter appears to
some people tremendously formidable.
She is not known, for instance, as a
woman who will put others at ease, and
her reply to this is that she cannot be
bothered with small talk—but does this
matter? She has a small circle of very
good friends and doesn’t wish to enlarge
it. Besides, only people who don’t know
her properly think her difficult. At work
she thinks she gets on well with people.
No one has left yet because they dis-
liked her, at least she thinks not. “I
cannot stand inefficiency and people
might go for that reason. Yes, I suppose
I do think like a man. I am certainly
not an emotional woman. At my age,
45—and this will sound cynical—the
fact that I’m not married doesn’t
bother me so long as I can carry on
having men friends. It is too late now
for me to be dominated by one single
man.”
She is English but prefers to be
called Australian. “Not New Aus-
tralian, which sounds frightful. Aus-
tralian. This is the only place in the
world to live, though I travel, of course,
and see the rest of the world.” One day
she will take a three-month holiday on
an island and paint. She has done two
pictures. One sold at a higher price
than Dame Pattie’s, which she thinks is
rather good.
Meanwhile, she practises in public
what she preaches at work. The other
night at the opening of a Sydney
fashion shop she and her girls caused
great excitement by turning up in
trouser suits. She in bright red, one
girl in paisley, the other in white cor-
duroy. Silver is the next big color to
hit the fashion scene.
Miss Scotter’s long, beautifully mani-
cured nails are already shining, shining
bright in anticipation.


Ms AN
AUSTRALIAN
COMPANY?
It's a company Ihatis:
• Financed by Australians.
* Keeping it's profits in Australia.
'Paying it’s taxes to Australia.
• Helping to make Australia betterto live in.
'Growing with Australia
* Dedicated to the development of Australia.
Its
|A J:
fIMPOL
OWNED
Owned and controNed by AustTaKans.
SUPPORT AM POL THE AUSTRALIAN COMPANY


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER’S
NOTEBOOK
m
m
am
mm
■ '
.
A dog’s life
is a great life aboard
the Queen Mary
This poodle is a seasoned
traveller. He’s made many
Atlantic crossings in both
Queen Elizabeth and Queen
Mary. The “dog hotel” on
the Queen Mary can accom-
modate twenty-six guests.
(Single or double kennels
are available.) The kennels
have removable teakwood
floors, a skylight for air and
ventilation and hot and cold
water. There is even an
eighty-foot exercise deck,
exclusively for residents.
Homo Sapiens are equally
well looked after. There are
35 public rooms aboard the
Queen Elizabeth and a
theatre seating 338 people.
Twelve hundred people look
after you on each of the
giant Queens. Three quar-
ters of the Cunard stewards
descend from seafaring
families.
At mealtime on the Cunard
Queens, you choose from a
menu which is the equivalent
of the combined menus of
forty leading restaurants on
land ... There are more than
a dozen bars on each of the
Queens. You can choose from
forty brands of whisky. The
wine list is the largest afloat.
And you can celebrate with
any one of 21 kinds of vin-
tage champagne.
There is a tranquil library
with 5,000 books. Or if you
need toning up there is a
vast swimming pool and a
Turkish bath under the care
of a professional masseur.
Getting there is half the fun.
GUIMARD
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT
c.t
AROUND SWAN HILL
It Never Rains in the Mallee
YOUR correspondent was a crew
member on the Gem when
she made her last trip from
Bitch ’N’ Pups reef to her final rest-
ing place, Swan Hill. She had been
on that reef for six months and it was
a name you could get your teeth into
back in the ’9os. The local news-
paper most delicately referred to it
as the Female Dog and Offspring.
When we picked up the Gem she
was still a lovely old thing, all three
decks and 134 feet of her like a North
Queensland pub. No vertical was
quite vertical and no horizontal quite
horizontal, she was all wavy lines and
she inspired Kenneth Jack to do some
quite beautiful painting.
Actually we painted only one side,
the side that could be seen from the
river bank. That was three years ago.
Now the Gem, very nicely restored,
with an art gallery, restaurant, and
some of those wavy lines straightened,
is the administration centre for Aus-
tralia’s first full-scale Folk Museum,
and this was a marvellous area in
which to start.
Out in the Mallee, when something
is left out in the home paddock, it
tends to stay there for 100 years.
Ross Holloway, the Museum director,
has a dossier of 20 pages of material
they haven’t even brought in yet. There
were old traction engines all up and
down the Murray, every property
seemed to have a stack of old bullock
yokes, and you wouldn’t believe the
number of people who claimed to pos-
sess the first Sunshine harvester ever
produced.
The Museum is down by the water
at Horseshoe Bend. Of course, the
Gem, landlocked now in a concrete,
water-filled basin, towers above all, but
there are some other very large items.
My favorite is a 1914 traction engine,
one of the two largest ever to come to
Australia. It is 12 feet high,. 27| tons,
40 horsepower, and covered in a most
satisfying manner with flywheels, pis-
tons, levers, steam whistles, and such.
When one sits up aloft in the saddle,
there is a feeling of monstrous power
that one would never get from a bull-
dozer.
Underneath there is a large drum
of cable. Originally the idea was to
have a traction engine on either side
of the paddock and to winch the
plough back and forth by steam. It
must have been a superbly exciting
and inconvenient way of ploughing a
field.
Then they have the original Towan-
ninnie homestead, from 30 miles away.
This is a little beauty, circa 1875, a log
cabin on the drop-log system. This
was an ingenious system of construc-
tion unique to a radius of 300 miles
around Swan Hill. First you put in
your uprights of round logs, nailed
strips on to these to make slots
tapered your lengths of Murray pi n g
at either end, and then dropped them
into the slots one on top of the other
It has been furnished in the utterly
correct 1880 manner. In the tradi-
tional style, they lined their drop-log
homestead with hessian, put a paper
lining on that, and finished off with
vintage flowered wallpaper.
The Victorian Government has con-
tributed $lOO,OOO to the Museum, and
locally they have raised $52,000. ' The
Wells organisation did the painless ex-
traction in Swan Hill. It almost seemed
as if it were beautifully arranged. On
the day the appeal started, a boy
found a splendid ship’s anchor, six feet
long and three hundredweight, quite
a find for 200 miles from the coast.
It produced most gratifying publicity,
and Wells has pledges for the entire
sum within three weeks.
Now they have more than 60 ex-
hibits of old-time agricultural machin-
ery, vehicles, and such as a black-
smith’s shop and old solid-wheel timber
wagon, a Mallee roller and 200-year-
old Aboriginal canoe-tree from Speewa
Island, along the river. Then they
have original old buildings, like a Cobb
and Co. station, a blacksmith’s shop, a
hairdresser’s, and so on.
QN Thursday, Sir Henry Bolte came
up for the official opening. The 500
guests were placed outside in seats
nicely in front of the Gem. Sir
Henry was brought in from his motel
in style in a “T” model Ford. By
3 p.m., sinister black clouds began to
build as somebody said it was cocky
farm dream stuff. By the time every-
one had made his speech, it was
already beginning to spit,
t By the time Sir Henry got to his
feet we were having a most comforting
Mallee downpour. Sir Henry was tact-
ful. As his best dark grey English
worsted became soggy and lost its
shape, he said, as a farmer, he knew
how wonderful this was. He sprinted
to the plaque, said, “I declare this
Museum open,” unveiled it at full
gallop, and ran off to the Gem.
The rain was splendid. A willy willy
completely destroyed a brick garage
over yonder, and we had 40 points.
The 500 sodden guests took shelter in
the Gem and looked out on the after-
noon tea, which was to be served in
the open. There was a nice view of
several thousand wet sandwiches and
three or four hundred well-soaked gem
scones. It is true, early in the piece,
there had been a suggestion that it
would be wise to put up a marquee for
the afternoon tea, but the committee
decided this was a waste of time. It
never rained in the Mallee.
BATMAN


What a wine label tells you about
the wine it labels
im
On the neck of a bottle, you will find
the Vintage seal, which tells you
the year the wine was made, allowing
you to judge the 'age' that the wine
has achieved. In Australia, nearly every
year is a 'good' year for wine so
you don't have to memorise a long list
of 'special' years.
Dalwood is the name of the historic
Penfolds vineyard and winery in the
heart of the Hunter Valley birthplace of
many of Australia's finest table wines.
Here is your assurance that there are
at least five or six'wineglassfulls
the exact number depends on the
size of your wineglass.
This is the name of the Vintner (the
man, family or firm that made the wine).
When the label of your wine reads
Penfolds, you know that the wine you
are about to enjoy is the product
of 122 years experience in winemaking.
Here you discover the character of
the wine. Hermitage is a variety
of grape, and Claret denotes a red wine
dry and light in body. It's especially
suitable for meals, particularly barbecues
and good traditional English Roast Beef.
However, don't feel that red wines
must be served only with red meats
a claret can be equally delicious
with chicken or fish.
That's how easy and informative
reading a wine label can be.
Tonight spend a couple of minutes
reading the label on the wine
you serve. In fact, why not start a
collection of wine labels.
BE WINE WISE CHOOSE
PENFOLDS
WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844


< it
What’s so great about the only
3.00 p.m. flight departure
from Sydney to the U.S.A?
Come fly with us and discover the delightful all-the-way difference!
departure from Sydney, every
A short hop and then a
Wednesday and Friday. So
brief stop in Auckland.
Afternoon
convenient.
Up and away
to Honolulu.
at 9.00 p.m., a gourmet dinner and then an uninterrupted sleep-right-through
'dm
§
Awake to a breakfast-time (7.20 a.m.) welcome in
morning. At DC-8 Five Star jet speed (and comfort)
before 5.00 p.m.
manner to which
connections from Los Angeles
the same afternoon—ready
Air New Zealand has accustomed you. Immediate
Hawaii in the cool of the
you’re in Los Angeles
to live it up in the
to all parts
of
the U.S.A., to London
Air New Zealand.
and Europe. See you soon! See your Travel Agent or
Phone: Sydney 28-2786; Melbourne 63-2554; Brisbane 31-2548; Adelaide 51-0331; Perth
23-1564; Canberra 47-147.
AIR HEW ZEALAND
★ ★ ★ ★ ★ The Five Star Jetline
Hong Kong • Singapore • Sydney • Melbourne* • Brisbane • Auckland • Wellington* • Christchurch • Samoa* • Fiji • Hawaii • Los Angeles
In association with Qantas and BOAC. 'lnternational Electra Services
APTMO7


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Music, With Variations
BY JACK KUNST
I REMEMBER clearly my debut a
a conductor in 1954. Sir Thoma
Beecham had only given me a few
hours’ notice to conduct a concert a
the Festival Flail. The program includec
Tchaikovsky’s Manfred Symphony
which I had never heard before, the
overture to Chabrier’s “Gwendoline,’
and the Balakirev piano concerto, in
which my great friend, the late Richarc
Farrell, was to be the soloist. The pre-
vious day Richard and I had playec
the concerto through on two pianos
There I stood for the first time in my
life with full orchestra and a full hall
but somehow it worked and I don’t
think the people quite recognised what
the nature of my terror was.”
Forty-year-old Melbourne-born Denis
Vaughan, who now lives in Rome anc
who is in Sydney to conduct “Boris
Godounov” and “II Trovatore” for the
Elizabethan Trust Opera Company, last
week let his mind go back over the
years of action and challenges which
made him the musician he is today.
Vaughan started as a pupil of the
late Raymond Lambert. Lambert gave
him a scholarship when he was ten—
the first time that Lambert had ever
done such a thing. At the age of 20 he
graduated from the Melbourne Univer-
sity Conservatorium.
He went to England in 1947 and
joined the Royal College of Music on
a scholarship granted to him in Eng-
land. Meanwhile, he earned money as a
cook and as a bass player in a jazz
group at the Dorchester Hotel. He
stayed four years at the Royal College.
Then he studied in Vienna for a time,
and learned the organ in France with
Andre Marchal.
When Vaughan left the Royal Col-
lege, the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra
was about to go on a tour of the United
States. At the last moment the orchestra
needed a bass player and Vaughan got
the job. Vaughan said: “Because of my
interest in instruments I was always
trying out' the organs in any of the 50
cities we visited. Sir Thomas heard me
trying the organ at Boston Symphony
Hall and immediately engaged me as
organist of the orchestra.”
Vaughan said: “There came a time
when I became anxious to learn to con-
duct, myself. I assumed that opera was
essential and that I had to go on the
Continent. I consulted with Sir Thomas
and he agreed. He said you need opera,
because you learn from the breathing
°f phrases by the singers. You learn
the two essentials of music: the grand
hne anc i flexibility—the grand line
being the thing the public can recognise,
and flexibility the thing that makes
music.
A fortnight later, Vaughan received
a telegram from Sir Thomas asking
him to become his assistant. The
job entailed a lot of recording sessions.
Vaughan said: “At the rehearsals
I d be listening and we’d discuss any-
thing that wasn’t coming through or
anything in the score I wasn’t hear-
ing. This I straightened up by making
dynamic and expression marks in the
score. It allowed Sir Thomas to get
through a tremendous amount of music
without wasting anv time. His roper-
Denis Vaughan
toire was so rich and his mind so fecund
that in three months we did 183 works.
“This gave me a kind of basic road-
worthiness that would be hard to equal.
In the recordings I havev done since, I
have been both conductor and artistic
director. In some recordings Sir
Thomas made, the expression marks
are all mine. The Beethoven Mass, as
now recorded, has been done entirely
on my markings. I believe I am also
the only person he ever shared a concert
with in the latter years of his life.
He did Beethoven’s 7th and I did the
Beethoven Mass at the same concert
at the Festival Hall. I think it was in
1956.”
In 1957 Vaughan went to Italy on
a Gulbenkian scholarship to further his
knowledge of Italian opera. It was
then that he embarked on what he
calls, “this awkward business of the
scores” and his argument with the pub-
lishing house of Ricordi in Milan
about the published scores of Puccini
and Verdi.
Vaughan had found differences in
the vocal score, the miniature score,
and the orchestral score of Puccini’s
“Manon Lescaut.” Each of the scores
had different dates and the earlier the
score the more asymmetrical were the
expression signs. It occurred to
Vaughan that Puccini hadn’t made the
alterations himself, and the argument
was on.
He documented his protests to
Ricordi with letters of support from
Beecham, Stravinsky, Walter, Karajan,
Bernstein, and others. The publisher
fought back and got a number of con-
ductors to say and write things in its
defence.
Vaughan fears that it will be a long
time before we will see a first-rate
critical edition of the works of Verdi.
He said that as far as these manu-
scripts’ texts were concerned, the house
of Ricordi did not seem interested in
circulating proper knowledge of the
scores from which it had derived so
much benefit and that it actively
opposed prolonged and serious access
to the original documents.
However, Vaughan had sacrificed
enough time of his conducting career
fighting Milan. He wanted to record
a number of works, of which the nine
Schubert Symphonies were the first.
He intended eventually to do a com-
plete set of Haydn and a complete
set of Mozart. He said: “With great
difficulty I have done 12 Haydn Sym-
phonies, which RCA is going to release
next year, and then I plan to do a set
of Mozart.”
Vaughan’s partner in the recording
ventures is film actor Edmund Purdom,
whom he met in Venice. Vaughan said
Purdom was a music enthusiast and his
hobby was sound engineering. He had
a six-track tape-recorder and a remark-
ably discriminating ear to go with it.
On the Sydney’s Opera House, Denis
Vaughan had this to say: “After all
that has been said and done about the
Opera House, I can’t trace anything
being spent at all on what is to go into
it. This seems upside-down to me. I
would say, without hesitation, that Wal-
ter Legge ought to be brought out
immediately.
“He has formed the best orchestra
and concert society in England, he has
a thorough knowledge of international
opera, he knows everybody who matters
in international opera, and he knows
how to make music in an Anglo-Saxon
country as near self-supporting as pos-
sible. Compared with what he has done
in the past, his job here would be small.
“He should be invited to consult on
forming a second orchestra for Sydney,
which should be better than the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. He should run
the Opera House, prepare a two-month-
a-year international opera season, form
the orchestra, and make proper esti-
mates for the hiring out of the orchestra
when it is not doing the season, plus
arrangements with commercial TV—
even hiring out to the ABC.
“Walter Legge, in the time that he
is here, should be given a number of
TV programs. People would then
become convinced of the rightness of
having first-class artists here and would
influence their politicians correspond-
ingly. I don’t think the country can do
better than to get a proven leader of
that nature.”


I I I 11 I \ ' I I In I I r- - 2a ■% i l
FASTEST
:»«>S»:5S! W ™fflg*g»
___ ______ _____ __ j^££
:
, : .s
»gg»»
■
li
._
__. „
HI
■
. •_' . •-:.
fejjgjyp*
m.
m
Jr
■
CAN MOVE
30.000 TONS OF
COAL A DAY!
A5BO/7
At Morwell Victoria, the longest single-flight,
high-speed conveyor system in Australia is
carrying brown coal from the open cut to Hazel-
wood Power Station, 1f miles away. Plans for the
conveyor system were adopted by the State
Electricity Commission Victoria after a thorough
investigation of all means of transporting coal
over such a distance.
Built to exacting specifications by Goodyear
Tyre and Rubber Co. (Australia) Ltd., the two
steel cable conveyors operate at a speed of 1050
feet a minute carrying 2000 tons of coal an hour.
The belts are 7244 feet and 8560 feet long, 48
inches wide, approximately f inch thick and con-
sist entirely of rubber and 500 miles of steel
cables. Minimum breaking strength is 423,000
pounds. The structure of the belt allows the cable
maximum lateral movement. There is no tearing
under impact!
The seven miles of Goodyear belting used on
the two mainlines for Hazelwood is another
example of the numerous advantages of steel
cable belting. It has an extremely high tensile
strength. Its design makes it trough perfectly and
have the best impact resistance of any belt con-
struction. Stretching and elongation is negligible
so short take up lengths are possible.
If you have a project where you need conveyor
belting remember Goodyear conveyor belting. It’s
the best. Contact the Goodyear technical man at
the Goodyear branch i your state.
GOOD-YEAR


SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL, NORTH SYDNEY
MASTERS
Vacancies in 1967:
1. Science to matriculation. Biology experience
for preference.
2. Commerce and Geography to matriculation.
3. English to matriculation.
Apply in writing to the HeadmaVc'
B. H. TRAVERS.
GIFTS TO BRITAIN
Fine Foods, Wines, Hampers, Fresh Fruit,
Hams, Turkeys, Chocolates, Biscuits,
Cheese. From $2. To U.K. in 12 days.
Save money, time and postage. Send
stamp for catalogue. Postal Gift Service.
BOX 32, ELIZABETH, S.A.
Cooma’s most
modern Motel
A\
A
n
Ike,
® MOTEL 0
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia’s leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals.
■ An MFA Motel ■
For reservations and further details contact any
AN SETT-AN A TRAVEL SERVICE
or direct to Motel • Cooma 21133
A member company of ansett transport industries LIMITED
AT1.708
MUSIC
No Loose Ends
Little Symphony Orchestra. Youth
Concert. Conductor Joseph Post.
Sydney Town Hall.
RETURNING to Sydney's Town
Hall after a four-month absence
was perhaps a little strange, but
it was not altogether an unpleasant
experience. Its acoustics seemed more
tolerable; there are, after all, quite a
few major music centres overseas where
music is made to sound no better. The
Little Symphony Orchestra, a small
group of string and wind players taken
from the SSO, looked slightly forlorn
on the vast Town Hall platform. After
hearing a number of European chamber
orchestras, I was very happy with the
playing of this group; the strings play
and stay together admirably, the winds
are excellent and the sound produced
was very agreeable throughout.
The Geminiani Concerto Grosso is
good early 18th-century music, elegant
and tuneful, yet without any strong
character such as distinguishes the
music of Bach or Corelli; it made for
pleasant listening but no more, and
though it was well performed the
only lasting impression I took away
was of excellent solo playing by Donald
Hazelwood, the leader. All the same,
one should be aware of more than a
single player’s skill and artistry in a
major work; if one does not, it is, as
often as not, the fault of the music.
Bach’s Second Suite for Flute and
Strings was distinguished by some very
fine playing from Jean-Pierre Rampal,
the justly celebrated French flutist.
Rampal produces a rich, reverberant
tone, and the suite was excellently
played throughout. Thinking it over
afterward, I realised that it could have
sounded much more exciting, but there
was nothing to leave an audience other
than satisfied.
Haydn’s Symphony No. 85, known as
“La Reine,” was a different matter.
This is not a very familiar work,
although one of Haydn’s best, and Mr.
Post’s known fondness for Playdn’s
music had raised my expectations high.
Once again the Symphony was well
directed and attractively played, with
some good tonal contrasts and a proper
sense of style from the orchestra, which
was of the right size for this music. If
the audience were not roused —and they
were not —it must have been because of
Mr. Post’s rather staid tempi.
The only work to arouse the audience
was a Bartok Suite of Hungarian
Peasant Pieces, presumably an arrange-
ment for flute and strings. The Suite —
interesting, beautiful, and charming—is
based on a number of typical Hun-
garian tunes of considerable antiquity;
it gives very great scope to the flutist,
and Rampal’s playing of the intricately
woven music was wonderfully fine. It
was in this work also that the orchestra
gave of their best and Mr. Post rose
io the challenge of an unfamiliar score
with verve and brilliance. The result:
an enthusiastic audience near to cheer-
ing.
Tchaikovsky’s Serenade is tuneful
and a good show-piece for a string
orchestra; all the same it is trite and
schmaltzy and should not have been
allowed to follow on the interesting
Bartok work. Youth concerts should be
occasions when every listener is anxious
and eager to hear every last item on the
program. Why, after exciting music by
Bartok, should they be cast down with
Tchaikovsky’s cast-offs?
PAUL FROLICH
ART
A Veritable Orpheus
Nicholson Museum. Sydney University.
Dick Watkins. Central Street Gallery,
Sydney.
TO those who recall the Stygian
depths of the old Nicholson
Museum, Professor Cambitoglou,
who is responsible for a sparkling new
gallery that displays artifacts and works
of art both rationally and didactically,
must seem a veritable Orpheus leading
obscured, corroded, and dusty forms
into clear Mediterranean light.
The display, with pedantry hardly
evident, has the Nicholson Hermes pre-
siding over the newly opened Greek
and Roman section, and if he is glowing
aloft with an awesome aura, one may
meet at eye-level a plastered skull from
Jericho, the oldest city in the world. It
dates from pre-pottery neolithic times
and people like to think it’s the earliest
portrait known. Certainly, the earliest
piece of personification of the inanimate
is a fourth-century vessel from Southern
Italy, where the breeze is depicted as
an allegorical figure with cloak lifted
by the wind.
It is impossible to detail even the
best items, but outstanding are parts of
the Egyptian Book of the Dead; Etrus-
can bronzes and cinerary urns; a repre-
sentative set of painted Attic vases;
Roman glass, quite skilfully lit; a heavy
scallop-edged plate—from central Italy
before the Etruscans; Egyptian and
Roman statuary, the latter recently
acquired, and some Luristan bronzes.
As this is mainly a teaching museum
—the best university museum outside
Oxford and Cambridge—there are
many pieces of wide scholastic, but,
since many are pottery fragments, of
frustrated aesthetic interest. What is
intriguing in the Greek fragments is the
recurrence of strict geometrical forms
as though artists grew periodically tired
of sinuous fluidity; and those given to
unsophisticated spontaneity will prefer
the pale, powdery Cypriot pots decor-
ated with zany birds and throwaway
incisions, to the formal, emphatic
shapes in the Greek vases, and to the
rather coarse Southern Italian' pieces
that, perhaps, exemplify what happens
to an art as it moves to the periphery.
For those who dislike the archaeological
look and prefer the positive simplicity
of a Bill, Arp or Brancusi, there is a
small white Cycladic figure of frugal
and formal beauty from 2500 B.C.
There are plenty of presentation tech-
niques for museum men —non-reflecting
glass over notices, and a theme case at
present devoted to drama with a vase
representing the denouement of
Euripides’ “Iphigenia in Tauris”—and
plenty for the public that may visit
Tuesday to Saturday from 9 to 12 and
1 to 5.
There’s long been a dispute about
how much information a museum—
especially if the works are of aesthetic
interest —should supply; some think
works of art should do their own brain-
washing; others that any discussion that


We’re presenting that funny girl
Barbra Streisand
exclusively for Acrilan carpets in...
Color me Barbra
What a show! What a personality! What a vehicle to carry the strong
Acrilan carpet message into the homes of thousands of viewers! A one
hour, one girl show loaded with talent and the tops in T.V. entertainment
on Australia’s top stations GTV 9, TCN 9. Brought to you by Chem-
strand, makers of Acrilan carpet fibre and Felt & Textiles Ltd., makers of
Australia’s finest carpets.
Be watching Thursday Oct. 6th, 7.30 p.m.
A
f t
acrylic fibre
ChEMSTRAISD
9
H


t
i
IS
• 'V
'
How did
he do it?
1
2
3
4
5
6
He arrived in Melbourne
at 9.00 a.m.
He made six calls in
different suburbs.
He drove across town to
head office.
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends -
Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was
waiting
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon,
Within moments of your arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own, for as long as
you like. And you and the car arc always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket, or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival,., f
For a day, a week, or all the time.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
is not confused with aesthetic experi-
ence is relevant.
Dick Watkins’ set of acrylic, color-
field or color-image abstractions aim
a t a self-sufficiency, independent of
references to visual objects of the real
world, and copveying no information
other than basic, aesthetic arrange-
ments. What lies behind the self-
denying ordinances and puritanical re-
jection of seductive images from the
world of appearances might profitably
be examined, but it’s hardly to the
worlds of Goya, Titian, Monet, Manet,
and Matisse (except in “Zugzwang”),
mentioned in the catalogue, that Wat-
kins belongs, but to that of Kelly, Nolan
and Polk Smith, though he has not
settled on any particular shape.
Watkins is best when he opts for
escutcheon or emblematic shapes like
“Afligido” or for the wide-banded
rhythms in “Benison” and “For A. J.
Tulk”; in these latter two the slight
sway induced by the broad rivers and
floods of color has nothing to do with
old-fashioned and quite respectable
empathy. In “Benison” a scallop-edged
brown area sets surging a crimson cor-
ner that in less skilled hands would be
inert.
Elsewhere his color is often garish,
his forms, in an art that must be
immaculately positive, gauche and in-
decisive; sometimes he is over-con-
cerned with tensions, as when a green
triangle thrusts through waves of
orange and pink; in “Alarum” the
cacophony of yellow and muddy brown
curves on green is shattering, though
it’s admirable to see him resisting his
former alluring hues.
He finds it hard to resist his previous
lyricism and free, unanehored forms;
the struggle shows too much in “Sta-
tion,” where black, right-angled designs
on the glass of a box run savagely coun-
ter to diagonally radiating bands of
vivid green and red inside. The same
over-emphasis spoils “Excursion,” with
its shiny blackboard protruding from a
bright yellow oval.
Mr. Watkins, like others who have
recently adopted this bland, simple,
open-areaed art, needs to work longer
at it; it’s a game, transitional show and
this should alarm no artist who, look-
ing at the Nicholson, thinks “Sic tran-
sit gloria mundi.”
ELWYN LYNN
THEATRE
The New Boy
The Creeper. Pauline Maculay. St.
Martin’s, Melbourne.
EDWARD KIMBERLY is elegant,
middle-aged, and lives in his
family mansion with the inevit-
able old retainer. A self-styled but
somewhat uninventive eccentric,
Edward is a confirmed misogynist
with a taste for young male com-
panions.
“The. Creeper” commences with the
supercilious Edward mesmerising a shy,
apparently conformist youth he wants
as a replacement for an affected young
homosexual who has outlived his wel-
come. But even as Edward teases the
new boy about his dullness we’re begin-
ning to suspect that there’s more to
Maurice than meets the eye. What
begins as a sick comedy soon develops
into a vigorous if unsubtle psychological
thriller.
Raymond Westwell and Jon Ewing
were respectively urbane and out-
rageous in their undemanding roles as
eccentric Edward and camp Michel.
But Keith Davies, who has done good
work for Wal Cherry at Emerald Hill,
was extraordinary as Maurice. This per-
formance as the placidly smiling
psychopath is one of the best of the
year. Producer George Fairfax must
have been delighted.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Love, love, love
Aspects of Love. Devised and produced
by Tom Brown. Old Tote, Sydney.
ANYONE who has suffered small-
town concerts in their youth with
songs, recitations, and violin solos
is probably as wary as I of anthology-
type recitals like “Aspects of Love.”
But this program is so well chosen and
arranged by Tom Brown and presented
with such liveliness and skill by the
actors, Jennifer Wright, James Condon,
and Kevin Miles, and the singers, Helen
Zerefos and Gino Zancanaro, that it
charmed away all my resistance. How-
ever, the daneing by three ballet danc-
ers does not fit well with the rest of
the program, for what reason I am not
sure.
Of the selections, which range from
the creation of Eve in “Genesis” and
the birth of Cain in A.D. Hope’s poem
“Imperial Adam” to the death of
Peer Gynt, the most successful, I
thought, are those which come nearest
to the dramatic. These include scenes
from “A School for Scandal,” “The
Taming of the Shrew,” and “Under
Milk Wood.” Next to these in dram-
atic interest are the letters.
The letters have in common a re-
freshing candor and straightforward-
ness, although they express a variety of
attitudes to love, marriage, and sex.
They include St. Paul’s austere remarks
about marriage, Benjamin Franklin’s
comically robust advice to a young
man about sex, the disarmingly candid
worldliness of the fifteen-year-old chit
who later became Madame du Barry,
John Keats’ raw-nerved appeal to
Fanny Brawne, the moving dignity of
Anne Boleyn’s letter to Henry VIII
from her imprisonment in the Tower,
and the no-nonsense letters of Napoleon
to Josephine and Marie Louise.
Jennifer Wright, who has the beauti-
fully modulated voice of the well-
trained British actress, shows delightful
virtuosity in her playing of all the
women’s parts. James Condon also re-
veals himself as a flexible and accom-
plished actor, while Kevin Miles shows
his skill within a more limited range.
Ron Reid’s simple but graceful arrange-
ment of slender columns flanking the
stage provides an attractive setting.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


The beauty and mood
of old Indonesia greet you
the moment you enter the
modern, air-conditionec
Hotel Indonesia
General Manage
R. Kane Ri
surrounds you with te
instanl
‘ ft*
batik, oriental gardens,
balconies, swimming pools
and penthouse supper
club. A stirring combina-
tion! Call your Travel Agent
or Inter* Continental for
reservations-Melbourne 63 7219,
Sydney 28 8025, Perth 216825.
HOTEL
AN INTER.*CONTINENTAL HOTEL - Djakarta
One of 34 incomparable Inter* Continentals around the world.
Inter • Continental’s new Hotel Bali Beach opens late 1966.
M 5594
BOOKS
Man of Brass
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
Writer by Trade. Dudley Barker. George
Allen and Unwin. $5.80.
EVEN when his biogiaphers aie
animated by the best will in the
world, Arnold Bennett always
seems to emerge as a faintly unattrac-
tive figure from the chronicles of his
life and times. I’m sure that Bennett
must have been a more likable and
interesting person than most of his
biographies contrive to suggest. His
range of friendships was extraordinarily
wide Wells, Conrad, Beaverbrook,
Arnold Bax, Eliot, the Huxleys, and
the Sitwells all regarded him with affec-
tion and esteem, and none of them had
much time for the mere superficialities
of the success that came to him in such
cornucopious measure. His robust zest
for life, his candid assessment of his
own talents (and equally candid enjoy-
ment of their material rewards), his
complete freedom from literary
jealousies and affectations were as re-
freshing as they were unusual. Yet, for
some reason, so much of the agree-
able side of Bennett’s personality seems
to evaporate when he is laid out on
the biographical dissecting table.
Almost inevitably we end up with
the Arnold Bennett of stately familiar
legend the bouncing bounder from
the Five Towns of the Potteries, the
“card,” the man who launched himself
on his writing career with the memor-
able words “I must have brass!”, the
£20,000-a-year, self-made success whose
idea of earthly bliss was a yachting
cruise with the Mountbattens, a
chauffeur-driven Rolls-Royce, and
plenty of slap-up entertaining at the
grandest of grand hotels and restaurants,
This, of course, was Bennett, too—the
easiest Bennet to write about and a
sitting ' duck for the brisk sharp-
shooting boys of popular biography,
But it is far from a full picture of the
curiously complex and highly indi-
vidualistic man who, amid a torrent of
totally unmemorable hack work, pro-
duced a handful of novels that will
probably live as long as the English
language.
It must be said at once that Dudley
Barker’s “Writer By Trade” does not
belong to the school of facile denigra-
tion. Though Barker has not much to
say that is particularly fresh or pene-
trating, he has written a competent
commonsense “life” and a useful short
introduction to the man and artist for
readers who may be coming to Bennett
for the first time. This naturally begs
some questions. To what extent is Ben-
nett read today and what appeal is he
likely to have for the younger genera-
tion in the second half of the 20th
century?
I was surprised to learn from Barker’s
appendix that no less than 16 of Ben-
nett’s 34 novels are still in print. I
would have guessed that publishers
stocked about half that number. One
would expect to find the acknowledged
classics “The Old Wives’ Tale,”
“Clayhanger,” “Riceyman Steps,” and
“Imperial Palace” on the list, but
who on earth these days, apart from a
few dogged specialists, would want to
read “Teresa of Watling Street” and
“The Prince of Love”?
One daunting thing about attempt-
ing a literary assessment of Arnold
Bennett is the wild fluctuation in the
quality of his writing, almost literally
from day to day. It is scarcely credible
that the author of “The Old Wives’
Tale,” a masterpiece worthy to rank
with the contes of Flaubert and De
, Maupassant, could have churned out
the mass of ephemeral journalism,
third-rate dramas, and cheap but
highly profitable—magazine serials that
occupied so much of Bennett’s hard-
driven working life. An enormous
amount of rubbish sifting has to be
done before we get down to the bed-
rock of Bennett’s literary achievement.
It is one of the merits of Barker’s book
that, without a lot of ponderous, word-
spinning analysis, he does provide a
handy and sensible prospector’s guide
to the lumps of pure ore in the for-
bidding mountain of the Bennett opus.
Barker makes some other good
points. One is that Bennett’s reputation
has suffered from his being regarded
too often as a purely regional writer.
Certainly the Five Towns provided the
backdrop for many of his earliest suc-
cessful novels and short stories, but
Bennett drew his material from his
own childhood in a claustrophobic,
lower-middle-class milieu that could
have been anywhere in industrial Eng-
land. There is little deliberate evoca-
tion of the unique atmosphere of the
Potteries. In fact, in his days of fame,
Bennett looked back on the Five Towns
with hard, unsentimental distaste and
never visited them except for entirely
professional reasons. Once, when he
accidentally found himself driving past
the grubby little shop in which he was
born, he cried in horror to his chauf-
feur: “Drive on! Drive on!”
As soon as he could escape from
the Midlands he did so. A stammer
helped to disguise his provincial
accent. He became a notorious dandy
in his dress and he taught himself to


cultivate a fine taste in food and drink.
Ris self-chosen world was the world of
the rich and famous, the cosmopolitan
society of luxury hotels and Mediter-
ranean yachting resorts. He was fascin-
ated by great fortunes and great indus-
trial enterprises, concentrations of
“brass” that not even he could hope to
aspire to. In some ways he was a
childishly naive figure, but that was
part of the bubbling charm that won
him so many devoted friends.
The miracle was that his creative
genius survived all the meretricious
glitter. Sometimes it was temporarily
submerged, when he was chasing quick
riches from the theatre or popular
journalism, but it was never totally lost.
Perhaps the inspiration of the later
novels ran drier and thinner after the
earthy realism of the Five Towns stories.
It is a matter of taste. Measured
against most English fiction produced
in the 19205, “Riceyman Steps,” “Lord
Raingo,” and “Imperial Palace” have
a strength and craftsmanship that might
surprise a new generation of readers
nurtured on the belief that Arnold
Bennett was merely a petit-maitre of
English letters.
The Crucifix of Crete
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Freedom and Death. Nikos Kazantzakis.
Faber. $1.60.
Freedom and death” marks
one of the important stations of
Greek author Nikos Kazantzakis’
own personal cross, which he bore quite
consciously all his life. He has explained
this at length in his autobiography,
where he recalls that he had none of
the usual childish desires at all, only
from a very early age an overpowering
yearning for freedom.
In this novel he chronicles his native
Crete’s fight for liberation from its
Turkish oppressors, which colored his
whole vision and became for him sym-
bolic for the struggle between good and
evil, God and the devil, and the spirit
and the flesh. His description of the
secret icon that was supposed to be
hidden in the monastery, with Crete
painted as a crucified woman drenching
her maimed children in blood, over the
caption, “My God, why hast thou for-
saken me?” is like a projection of his
own state of mind.
On the surface, “Freedom and Death”
is a violent, brutal, and earthy history
of the 19th-century massacres, as
irresistibly elemental as an earthquake.
The language is pungent and stabbed
with fiercely ironic asides; perhaps
because so much of it is childhood
memory, the sense of smell—the
memory sense—assails the nostrils with
an overwhelming stench. Yet beneath
all this apparently pointless butchery
there emerges a universal meaning, that
man’s greatest desire is for freedom,
though he usually achieves it only with
death, and his pursuit of it can assume
some strange forms.
Part fact, part fiction, the central
figure of Captain Michales, black-
bearded, giant-sized, fearless, is easily
recognisable as Kazantzakis’ own father
blown up to legendary proportions until
he has become revolt personified. The
young nephew who returns from his
studies in the land of the Franks with
a foreign wife is clearly the author him-
self, though in reality he was still a
boy when the events he describes took
place toward the end of last century.
Although the author has also personi-
fied good as Greek and evil as Turk,
be shows quite deliberately how diffi-
cult it is sometimes to distinguish be-
tween the two, just as vice and virtue
are often hard to tell apart. Over the
years, conqueror and conquered seem
to have grown astonishingly like each
other, equally barbaric, equally con-
trolled by rigid customs and supersti-
tions, both disposing of women like
parcels, playing happily together as
children, killing each other as men.
The symbolism is more than skin-
deep when Captain Michales and N.uri
Bey go through the pagan rites of a
blood-brother ceremony. The inevitable
saintly fool is a Turk, Efendina Horse-
dung, who has visions in which' Saint
Menas leaves his icon to gallop through
the streets to save the Christians. As
in the Old Testament, the Pacha calls
upon the Metropolitan to interpret his
dreams. The friends of a Greek hero
killed in a ritual duel with Nuri Bey
keep the death-watch by playing leap-
frog over his corpse. Sometimes the two
seem distinguishable only by smell—-
musk and jasmin for the Turks, sweat
and wine for the Greeks.
When the rebellion is over and peace
is restored, Captain Michales still
refuses to surrender. He awaits certain
death in the mountains above Megalo-
kastro, joined by his nephew, who had
come to ask him to return but elects
to stay and fight with him instead. The
advancing Turks sever the nephew’s
head and toss it to Michales, who,
“filled with an inhuman joy,” catches it
like a football and waving it like a
banner walks into the rain of bullets
to his death. This is, of course, not just
a crazy act of self-destruction but a
deliberate immolation of self—the tur-
bulent spirit has finally achieved its
freedom.
Middleman’s Island
The view from the city bus contains it all —
The morals and the means by which a life
May be defined. The cracked Post Office clock
Summons toward it Homburg-hatted squads
Prodding for keys with sausage fingers
In comfortable vests.
Look at those hands.
Few of them are for making. The ten digits
Are used for counting on when the mail comes
Carrying fever of the business kind. Orders,
Reorders, bids to buy and sell,
To make or break, to hire and fire, to tell
The time by tens and multiples. It is
Three minutes after coffee-break. A small
Supplier has just hung himself
From a beam in the henhouse, being incubated
Into that act by failing to make ends meet
From a grower’s profits. Messrs. X and Y
Must measure his defection, make allowance
For a new entry under Raw Materials,
To keep their interest growing under Process.
A time to stretch the legs on the brief walk
To clear the private boxes while the clerks
Sip dirty thoughts from cups, of office girls
Transposed to near-clad oi) a lonely beach
Where the full life seems easily in reach,
Being dreamstuff, since everyone must win
Something where all the clouds are lottery tickets.
LOUIS JOHNSON


SUCARYL NEEDED HERE
\
When waistlines expand,
chances are Sucaryl no-calorie
sweeteners can help. In tea
or coffee alone, Sucaryl saves
at least 30 calories per cup
(add up how many you could save!).
And there's no saccharin taste.
To cut down calories,
sweeten with . . .
No-Calorie
Sucaryl
BRAND
Natural-Tasting No-Calorie Sweeteners, from your chemist.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to $5O per annum for text
books, payable at the discretion of the Trustees, plus reimbursement of
approved expenses for compulsory excursions.
OR
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding $4BO per annum.
In addition the Trustees will consider granting a reasonable living at home
allowance during vacation periods to the parents or guardians of bursars
where the financial position warrants such an allowance being granted.
Applications are invited for the above bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insuf-
ficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy
the requirements for matriculation at the University of Sydney, or of
entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be. In
addition applicants must attain the educational standards determined by
the University and the College.
Forms of application must be returned duly completed not later than
the 14th November, 1966, and further particulars may be obtained from:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Twain’s Washington Jokes
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
The Adventures of Colonel Sellers. Mark
Twain. Chatto and Windus. $3.15.
IN 1873 “The Gilded Age,” a joint
novel by Mark Twain and Charles
Dudley Warner, was published, and
this was, in fact, the first novel which
Mark Twain wrote. “The Adventures of
Colonel Sellers” has been extracted
from this joint novel by the editor,
Charles Neider, and is a collection of
all the material contributed by Mark
Twain to the venture.
With any such experiment the result
is, in places, inevitably scrappy. There
are characters in whom Warner was
chiefly interested but who appear in
parts of the book written by Twain.
Neider has inserted brief synopses of
Warner’s contribution where it becomes
necessary. However, I suspect that the
original joint book, “The Gilded Age,”
would have been very scrappy, as in
a product of joint authorship the temp-
tation to pass the buck to one’s co-
author must have been great. As War-
ner’s contribution to the book on the
basis of the synopses and the few brief
quotations seem very dull indeed, I
have spared myself the trouble of con
suiting the original book.
Mark Twain’s chief greatness as a
writer lies in his powder to depict child
hood and small American town lif e
Twain was solely responsible for the
first eleven chapters and they are very
good indeed. In them his genius is able
to develop unhindered in its most suc-
cessful bent.
The book begins with a marvellous
opening chapter set in the obscure East
Tennessee town of Obedstown. A col-
lection of local yokels sit around on a
fence, unshaven and in homespun jeans
and squirt tobacco juice at bumble-
bees, and watch while the U.S. mail
for the month arrives with one letter.
This letter is addressed to the post-
master, who has an awesome reputation
for intelligence amongst the locals and
is known as “Squire” Hawkins. The
neighbors are described as occupying
the top rail of the fence “hump-
shouldered and grave, like a company
of buzzards assembled for supper and
listening for the death-rattle.”
“Squire” Hawkins collects a family
around him, some children his own and
some waifs. He acquires some
thousands of acres of land which he
holds out great hope for and which are
called the Tennessee Land. His for-
tunes suffer many vicissitudes, but
through fair weather and foul he holds
on to the Tennessee Land, which he
intends not for his own benefit but his
children, and even on his death-bed his
last words are “It is—-it is—over. But
you are —safe. Safe. The Ten—”
Meanwhile we are introduced to
“Colonel” Sellers, who is a masterpiece
of enthusiasm, a rogue who gulls every-
one greatly but himself most of all.
“Colonel” Sellers alternates between
great wealth and poverty, but as soon
as he is on to something good is side-
tracked into some hare-brained scheme
which reduces him to abject poverty
and palatial dinners of turnips and
water and heatless stoves creating the
illusion of warmth by burning a tallow
candle behind the isinglass door. How-
ever the “Colonel” is always able to
turn the dinner table into a county,
and a row of forks, tumblers, and
children’s toys into a mighty railroad.
After “Squire” Hawkins’ death we
enter on to the political section of the
book. The Hawkins family grows up
and associates with a group of Washing-
ton politicians. They attempt to
wangle a Bill through Congress and the
Senate for the setting up of a negro
university on the Tennessee Land and
indirectly benefit themselves to the
tune of a few million dollars. The fact
that these amiable corrupters are the
heroes of the book and not the villains
gives the satire more sting. Senator
Dillworthy is at times a superb creation
and his great speech to a group of wide-
eyed Sunday School children of how
he became an illustrious senator all
because of Sunday School is a master-
piece. However, the second part ot
the book is not as satisfactory as the
first. Mark Twain is not as much at
home in Washington as he is in the


V
s/iop around for
BOWLING CREAMS?
Fletcher Jones will fit you precisely, in
your size and style, right now, in famous
Coverdine finish Creams top quality
fine dense Wool and Terylene, long wear-
ing, and genuinely hand washable un-
beatable value at £8.13.6 ! Full range of
other Fletcher Jones washable Creams
from only £6.6.0.
Fletcher
JONES
Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, Launceston
FJjtn
backwoods and the' story loses a lot of
its warmth. Also, I feel his hatred of
Congress and wish to expose it de-
stroyed his artistic sense, even if it
created satire which was pungent stuff
in its day.
Didactic
Corpuscles
By JOHN BAXTER
Fantastic Voyage. Isaac Asimov. Dobson.
$2.65.
THE long love affair between science-
fiction and the cinema now seems
to be reaching its climax with the
application on Hollywood’s part of the
“intellectual” approach.
One of the most ambitious films in
this group is Richard Fleischer’s “The
Fantastic Voyage,” due to be released
here within the next few months. This
Book Of The Film has had a chequered
history. Originally a science-fiction
magazine story by Otto Klement and
Jerome Bixby, it was written into a film
script by Harry Kleiner, after which
Isaac Asimov, an s.f. writer whose
credentials (professor, biochemist, text-
book compiler, and established novelist)
are impeccable, transmuted it into Art
by rewriting it in novel form, first for
serialisation in the Saturday Evening
Post and then published as a book. It
emerges as an odd but agreeable
example of what science-fiction can do
when it isn’t trying too hard to be
serious.
There are some major assumptions
made in this story: assumptions which
many people will find hard to swallow.
Not least of them is the basic one —that
a submarine with a five-man crew can
be “miniaturised” to less than corpus-
cular size and injected into the blood-
stream of a living man with the object
of carrying out an operation from
inside the human body. Once this has
been accepted, the secondary considera-
tions, most of them movie art director’s
points along the lines of “Does the
inside of the human brain 1 really look
like that?” are relatively minor. When
a technician has spent three months
hand-carving a huge human heart it
seems gross to complain.
“The Fantastic Voyage” is set in
1955; the U.S. even has a CMDF
(Combined Miniature Deterrent
Forces), devoted presumably to fighting
red corpuscles and other patriotic enter-
prises. There is something magnificent
about the way in which Hollywood,
lavishing millions of dollars on the con-
struction of elaborate sets and refusing
with single-minded fanaticism to fake
an y of the film by animation or similar
techniques, has at the same time let the
Major social and emotional questions
raised by the story go begging. What
does the CMDF do? What changes to
warfare, social life (imagine the eaves-
dropping possibilities; be your own
bug), medicine, philosophy has minia-
turisation brought about?
This criticism aside, the story is an
amazingly inventive one. The moment
when, puncturing a lung to get air, a
crew member is dragged in and buffeted
around by “boulders” of dust is con-
ceived with the flair of E. E. Smith’s
“Skylark of Space” epics, as is the
sequence where the sub must pass
through the heart, specially stilled,
but only for one minute.
Detail is written in with considerable
accuracy, indicating that a scientist—
perhaps Asimov—was vitally concerned
in the film’s construction. The problems
of puncturing membranes, of obtaining
air in the submicrocosm, where it
behaves differently from the normal
world, the nature of the organisms in
the blood that menace the expedition,
all are detailed with considerable com-
plexity. Nothing as meticulous as this
has been done since James Blish wrote
his definitive “Surface Tension” in the
’fifties.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
10-to-l Against
MR. McMAHON seems to be doing his best to increase
Australia’s pull in international monetary affairs. But
it is hard going. We evidently are not going to succeed
quickly in getting into the Group of Ten, the collection of
finance ministers who between them will determine the
future of international payments arrangements. The French
and several Continental countries who follow France in these
matters are afraid that we will go all the way with the
Americans and the British, and see no reason why they
should give their opponents another vote.
There are other reasons why it is not surprising that the
Ten have failed to embrace us. For years our representatives,
particularly those from the Department of Trade, have, with
straight faces, tried to tell the world that we are “midway”
between the developed and developing countries. Anyone
with an ounce of nous realises that these categories are just
polite euphemisms to distinguish the rich countries from the
poor. The Ten have always been distinguished by the fact
that they are the rich, and so, in effect, we have been saying
for years that we were not eligible to join.
Another factor, taken up by THE BULLETIN before, is
that financially Australia has clung very much to Britain’s
motherly skirts. We have held such a large proportion of
our reserves in sterling that we have forfeited a lot of our
claim to being an independent monetary power.
Sceptics have asked what is to be gained by our member-
ship of yet another international organisation. One suggestion
has been that the only advantage would be that we could
hear more directly what the group was discussing and not
have to go asking the British. This is no negligible advantage,
for the British have often in the past been exceedingly
unhelpful in sharing information with our officials.
No one pretends that we would pull great weight, but then
we do not do that in any international organisations— except,
perhaps, the International Wool Secretariat! And we still
find it advantageous to belong. Small nations can carry influ.
ence if they work hard enough at problems.
There is much at stake, for the way the international
payments system develops will determine the future of
world trade and with it the future of our export income.
There is obviously more groundwork to be done before we
get into the Ten. We have to forget the midway nonsense
first, and diversify our foreign exchange holdings second.
In the meantime, we could hardly do better than apply for
membership of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development. Membership of this most impressive body
is important in itself, but it would also help lever open the
door to the Ten.
Go Tell if on the Mountain
THE future of the Snowy Mountains Authority continues
to be a hot political issue, though heaven knows why.
The Commonwealth Government is clearly hedging for
time until after the elections, so as to deny the Opposition
electoral capital. But there is little doubt that the Govern-
ment wants to disband the Authority once it has served its
purpose and finished building its valuable collection of dams,
tunnels, and power stations in the alps. Only a small opera-
tions and maintenance staff would remain.
This seems the sensible course to follow. The opportunity
for national investment in the Snowy area was quite unique
in Australia. There is now no lack of individual public works
MEN AND MATTERS
ERIC White has been an image-
maker since he became pub-
licity director of the newly
formed Liberal Party in 1944 after
bis four-year stint in the AIF. And
one of the worst things that can hap-
pen to a company’s image is for it to
incur a loss. It says something for his
abilities that despite a $20,000 loss in
the year to June the stockmarket
“image” of his public relations com-
pany, Eric White Associates Ltd., is
still good enough to hold his shares
at 50 percent above their 50-cent par
value—although at one stage this year
they did slide down to par.
Whites, the long-time industry
leaders, have been suffering severe
competition lately, particularly from
former Melbourne manager (and
Carlton footballer-MA) Laurie Kerr,
who now controls the expanding
rival, International Public Relations.
But the loss came from other causes —
from two problem subsidiaries, one
overseas, one local.
It was in the halcyon days of boom
and boom in 1958-59-60 that the Eric
White PR business really began to
move ahead, drawing for its staff on
the journalists who could see a much
brighter future in PR (with its better
pay, “soft living,” and grey flannel
suits) than in newspapers.
Now the emphasis is changing com-
pletely. The indus-
try is recruiting
more and more
from other fields.
But 51-year-old
Newcastle -born
Eric White had
never really re-
garded himself as
a journalist. His
1947 move with
Don Whitington
into the infant
Australian public
relations consulting business was really
as a sideline for the political and
economic newsletters these two men
put out —and which Don Whitington
still publishes following Eric White’s
withdrawal from this field in 1957 and
his concentration on PR.
THE “crime boom” has not yet
brought any boom in safe-
buying, according to Mr. Robert
Richard, the managing director of
Chubbs Australian Co. Ltd., the safe-
makers. But he hopes it will.
Even without the benefit of bank
robberies and stick-ups to encourage
more business, Chubbs had been doing
very well. Last week the company
announced a 23 percent profit rise for
1965-66.
Chubbs, a subsidiary of Chubb and
S. G. Rowe
D. Whitington
Eric White
Co. of London, has operated here for
70 years, but the parent company
seems to leave well alone in its man-
agement, which is wholly Australian.
Kogarah-born Mr. Richard, who
runs Chubbs here under a local board
headed by Mr. S. G. Rowe (appropri-
ately enough also a director of the
Bank of N.S.W.!), joined Chubbs as
an apprentice in 1926.
“We prefer to be called security
engineers and manufacturers of archi-
tectural metalwork nowadays,” said
Mr. Richard. “Safes are big business
for us, but now we do more in other
forms of security protection, particu-
larly fire protection of documents.”
In addition, the company has a large
stake in the aluminium window busi-
ness, which it makes from extrusions
supplied by local semi-fabricators.


projects which could usefully be built with the assistance of
t he Commonwealth, but there is nothing requiring the large
design and engineering team employed by the Snowy because
of the immense size and complexity of that scheme.
There are a few rivers still to be harnessed for power and
irrigation, in Tasmania and Queensland, N.S.W. could do
with flood mitigation works, and some of these would prob-
ably be found worth while. But there are so few such pro-
jects that existing State authorities will have no trouble
carrying them out. Other areas have been suggested for the
SMA: the construction of harbors, beef roads, thermal power
stations. But in all these the SMA has no special expertise,
and if the Commonwealth is to move in as the design and
construction authority then new institutions would seem
better.
One of the main arguments put against the disbandment
of the SMA is that this will involve the loss of its accumu-
lated talents and skills. This is absurd. It somehow suggests
that the employees of the Authority are going to vanish or
go on the dole. In fact, there are many organisations,
governmental and private, which are short of engineers and
could very usefully take up the people laid off by the SMA.
As an aside it is worth pointing out that not many men
are involved. Most of the Snowy work has been done by
private contractors, who, of course, move freely from one
project to another. The total number of professional and
technical staff in the construction division of the SMA was
a mere 98 at the end of June. So the scale of issue is piffling.
But as a matter of principle it is important to insist on
the closure of public authorities once their job is done, for
in a full employment economy there is no need for make-
work schemes. Indeed they tie up scarce skills and resources,
preventing them from being used productively elsewhere. In
the heat of election campaign it may be expecting too much
for the Government to put these simple points across. But,
after all, there is no excuse for further avoiding the issue.
Financing the HLIC Way
ONE can’t be too sure that the presence of the Housing
Loans Insurance Corporation, which only started in
business late in November, has had much to do with the
betterment in the housing figures in the past few months.
But going on the rapid expansion of its business, especially
in recent months, that its chairman, Mr. E. S. Eyers, speaks
about in his second annual account (the first was merely a
formality) to the Minister of Housing, its impact on the
availability of housing finance is growing satisfactorily, the
spread of its activities is widening, and its purposes are being
better understood.
Those coming most enthusiastically to the loans insur-
ance party have been the permanent building societies in
Tasmania and New South Wales, where that movement is
strongest. They accounted for 57.6 percent of the busi-
ness in the first seven months (to June 30) that the cor-
poration operated. The average of their loans insured was
$8499, which was considerably higher than the average of
$6900 by the banks who insured most of the other loans
(31.2 percent).
This was mostly Savings Banks, one of which insured
more loans than any other single insurer, as trading banks,
as expected, haven’t been much interested, nor have the life
companies to any extent. A few mortgage management
companies participated (about 10 percent of the business)
and more are expected to as many of the new companies
formed- this year get into their stride.
The acceleration of the HLIG’s business since June 30,
when the report was ruled off, has been remarkable. The
number of loans insured has jumped from 809 to 1413, and
their average value from $6297 to $11,060. The tempo is
rising nationwide, though more than half of the total business
by mid-September had been effected in New South Wales
and the A.G.T. Outside these areas and Tasmania the cor-
poration will obviously be looking for a big improvement.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: The Bank of New South
Wales, in its quarterly review, predicts no early easing
of interest rates, in view of the full employment of
resources and the expectation of a small cost-push
inflation. While evidence points to a resumption of a
better growth rate this year, its achievement may be
hindered by uncertainties over cost adjustments . . . The
Bank also called for more competition in the hanking
business . . .
The N.S.W. Budget provided for higher tax on poker-
machines to channel another sl.9m. into hospitals, and
for higher stamp duties to replenish State coffers emptied
by drought ... In Queensland, too, higher stamp duty
taxes, and increases in rail fares, transport fees, motor
vehicle fees, and hospital fees were budgeted for by the
Government to provide a nominal surplus this year.
Savings bank deposits in August were a record
$5654m., the biggest increase being in Victoria.
For the markets: Front-rank issues led the
reversal of a two-week downward trend in Australian
share markets. Most individual gains were small and
turnovers low, however. But apart from a firmer base
metals section, the mining market was easier, with tins
and golds losing more ground.
Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. James Callaghan,
announced that the British balance of payments would
show a useful surplus next year . . . and that his
Government was ready to bring about and maintain a
higher level of unemployment to defend the value of the
pound. The London stockmarket was quietly firm . . .
Wall Street experienced its sharpest drop in more than
four weeks, but turnover was moderate.
For companies: Biggest news was from mining
companies, the only really lively section of the market
this year. Three Barriers announced lower profits.
Broken Hill South’s earnings fell from a record s4.Bm.
to $3.2m. ($200,000 short of the April forecast) after
an initial loss at Cobar. Dividend was trimmed from
12 to 11c a 50c share . . . Dividend on the $1 shares of
North Broken Hill was held at 25c, although profit
declined from sß.2m. to $7.6m., which was a bit better
than the directors’ March estimate . . . E.Z. Industries
suffered less; its profit fall was only 2.2 percent to
$7.7m., and the 18 percent dividend rate established last
year was maintained comfortably . . . Some of the
world’s biggest mining companies have applied for pros-
pecting authorities in the Northern Territory following
discovery of rich zinc deposits near Rum Jungle . . .
Tin miner and investor, Aberfoyle Holdings earned
record profit of $643,000, largely due to inclusion of
Ardlethan Tin’s figures in the group result. Shareholders
are still awaiting a dividend or a guide as to when they
can expect one . . . Associated Freney Oil Fields’ chair-
man said the Associated group was on the brink of
discovering and developing reserves of at least 100 m.
tons of steaming coal at Theodore, Qld. . . . Bass Strait
gas discoveries have killed Phillips-Sunray plans for
piping gas from the Gilmore area of Central Queens-
land. Instead, it is proceeding with offshore work in the
Gulf of Papua . . . The Western Australian Government
finds acceptable a proposal prepared by American Metal
Climax, BHP, and GSR on the development of
Mt. Newman iron ore deposits.
In communications, two newspaper companies re-
ported slightly higher profits, with John Fairfax earning
4 percent more at $2,819,044 (along with a $614,641
capital profit mainly from the 2GB sale) . . . Publisher
of the Melbourne “Age,” David Syme, earned slm. as
in the previous year, but has appropriated $220,000 extra
for costs of relocation and of plant replacement . . .
Shipping Newspapers lifted profit by 10.8 percent.
Public-relations firm Eric White Associates made a loss
of $21,000, compared with previous profit of $69,000 . . .
Angus and Robertson lifted profit 19 percent to $353,000


SEND A DONATION TO
AUSTRALIAN FORCES
OVERSEAS FUND
BOX 175, P. 0., DARLINGHURST, N.S.W.
after higher turnovers in publish-
ing, printing, and book retailing
. . . Cardboard boxmaker and prin-
ter J. Fielding improved profit 8.5
percent to $721,000, despite lower
turnover of manufacturing divi-
sions.
More takeover news, with Gollin
bidding for steel merchant Harco
... A & K Cement is offering $2.6
million in a share exchange offer
for Gippsland Cement . . . One of
the last of the independent quarry-
ing companies, Rowlands Quarries,
of Victoria, inevitably announced a
takeover offer of just over s3m. in
cash from Pioneer Concrete, its
largest customer for sand . . . Con-
tinuing the F. W. Williams saga,
directors propose a new scheme with
a larger cash option to counter the
Martin Corporation offer.
N.S.W. State Cabinet refused to
vary existing margarine quotas, so
Marrickville Holdings shares
dropped to their lowest level in 14
years . . . Latec Investments showed
a surplus of $267,000 after writing
off $97,000 costs of the Government-
ordered investigation, and providing
$209,000 for interest due to un-
secured noteholders at the date of
receivership . . . The trustees for
the debenture-holders in Marcus
Clark Acceptance, Perpetual Custo-
dians, are recommending acceptance
of the takeover offer from Waltons
... A receiver and manager moved
into the long-established business of
Castlemaine Woollen, following dis-
cussions with the company’s bankers,
who are owed $547,000 ... Despite
expectations late last year of a
profit, Eric Anderson, electrical
appliance retailer, incurred a heavier
operating loss of $364,000, reflect-
ing a 27 percent decline in turn-
over. But the 1966 result was not
compounded by a provision for
“problem” debts, in 1965 $852,000.
Greater liability for tax chipped
6 percent off Ansett Transport In-
dustries’ profit, which was $3.7m.
or 18.3 percent on capital. Revenue
from all Ansett activities climbed
over the sloom. mark for the first
time ... A lower tax bill helped
Waugh and Josephson produce a
steady net result of $545,000; share-
holders this year receive 9 percent
instead of 8 percent . . . Lower
tax also allowed Bowling Centres
to report a steady profit of
$113,968, but there is again no divi-
dend . . . BHP’s interim dividend
continued the 9-l/6p.c. rate paid for
1965-66 ... A one-for-five par issue
was announced by H. P. Gregory,
engineer and machinery merchant,
whose profit rose 12£p.c. to
SIBO,OOO . . . Commemorating the
company’s 50th anniversary, H. Old-
field, paintbrush maker, will pay a
bonus 2|p.c. dividend on top of
the usual lOp.c. . . . Sydney produce
merchant Wright Heaton turned in
a 13p.c. lower profit, at $223,000,
but the usual 15p.c. dividend is un-
changed . . . And to close the week,
F. W. Williams directors reported
yet another bid from an entirely new
source, which they are prepared to
recommend, although they had only
just two days previously produceJ
their own second plan for a rec in-
struction.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Buttering-up Mrs. Jones
Suddenly, an Oilseed Surplus
AFTER the toast to the Queen, we
really felt like following by pro-
posing a toast to our favorite
lady, Mrs. Jones. Unfortunately, dis-
cretion (or cowardice) got the better
of us and we sat down to look at the
menu. And sure enough there it was:
the red, the white, and the blue,
confirming that the Dairy Produce
Board was not going to be outdone
by the jingoism of the margarine fel-
lows. And there up front was always
amiable Charlie Adermann, more
amiable than ever, telling us what great
Australians our dairy farmers were,
how they contributed magnificently to
the nation, to decentralisation, and all
the rest. And smooth TV cook Graham
Kerr presenting the prizes to winners of
a “bake-off” jointly sponsored by the
Dairy Board and a cake-mix company
making appropriate comments on the
superiority of butter.
It was a good day, Thursday. For
it wasn’t only a butter dinner at the
Rex. It was also margarine-luncheon
at the Canberra. (There was no need
to bother about breakfast.)
The margarine men were in town,
too, and they staged a more private
circus. Behind the closed doors of the
Orchid Room was held the “vegetable
oils and oilseeds conference.” Over
lunch, journalists tried to find out what
the linseed had said to the cottonseed
and whether the prickly safflower had
upset the coconut. But we found that
behind the oils and the oilseeds lurked
big business, and that was where the
real circus was being staged.
Inventive as ever, Marrickville Hold-
ings was in the spotlight. They argued
that really New Guinea was part of
Australia, and so why not lump in New
Guinea coconut oil with our own
safflower, cottonseed, and peanut oil.
Then, of course, Mrs. Jones will not
have a shadow of doubt about her
loyalty in buying margarine. For then
it is possible to argue that “Australian”
production of vegetable oils is greater
than usage, and that there is a prob-
lem of “surplus.’’ And this was just
what the conference did, what marvel-
lous new publicity material for
Marrickville!
BUT, seriously, how phony can you
get? New Guinea and the Solomon
Islands have been supplying Australia
with 20,000 tons of coconut oil a year
regularly each year back to 1962, as
far back as my statistics go. And all
of a sudden this fact is seized on to
prove that this year a “surplus” has
arisen and that this demands urgent
consideration by the Australian Agricul-
tural Council and a review of mar-
garine quotas. By changing the defini-
tion of what is Australian there is
created a complete turn-around in the
apparent circumstances of the “Aus-
tralian” oilseeds industry.
It is difficult to believe that the
various Governments will be impressed
by these statistical games. Indeed, if
anything, they are likely to backfire
to the advantage of the arch*
conservatives, the dairymen. For this
can be put up as yet another example
of the margarine manufacturers’ irre-
sponsibility and opportunism. The
position remains as before. Rightly or
wrongly, there have been quotas on
margarine production enacted in legis-
lation by the State parliaments and,
like other laws, they cannot be flouted
without penalty. Quite rightly the
N.S.W. Government now offers
Marrickville a renewal of its licence
only if it agrees to abide by the legal
quota. That is merely the handicap
which all the other margarine manu-
facturers have been operating under
for years. Marrickville is lucky to have
been able to get away with
over the quota as long as it did.
The Agricultural Council is most:
unlikely to meet before next February,
so an enlargement of quotas will have
to wait at least until then. As the
oilseeds industry is the subject of a
Tariff Board inquiry which looks like
dragging on through most of next year,
the formulation of a new margarine
policy will probably be put off until
1968.
Marrickville will just have to sit it
out. And so will the other margarine
companies. In the meantime we hope
they continue visiting Canberra.


In the land that invented business flying
the British have sold
20% of the new generation business jets.
Americans and Canadians have so far bought
more than 60 Hawker Siddeley business jets. On
average, world membership of this exclusive club
has grown at the rate of one a week.
The Americans have a vigorous home industry for
executive jets. But they are finding that the British
125 has exactly the right recipe for business flying.
It seats up to 8 passengers and has the most
headroom of any of the twin jets. It has a range
of 1,500 miles and speed up to 500 mph. And
with the new, more powerful Bristol Siddeley 522
turbojets it has an even better payload and hot and
high performance. What's more, the 125 is built by
the Company with the world's longest experience of
building civil jets.
Big enough. Fast enough. Competitively priced.
This simple formula is giving the HSI2S its phenom-
enal sales growth in the world's toughest and
most discriminating market.
HAWKER SIDDELEYI2S BUSINESS JET
HAWKER SIDDELEY AVIATION
Richmond Road, Kingston upon Thames, Surrey, England. Tel: Kingston 7741
Hawker Siddeley Group supplies mechanical, electrical and
aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service.
Represented in Australia by
Hawker de Havilland Pty Ltd., Lidcombe,
u
jgspgll
V' , - s'. vH
::
§l*
mßmmmmm
mm
■
.
■
. ■-■...
L_


Invest in
iNOUSIRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION ITD.
Paid up capital
$23,350,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
1
7YEARS
2/0
A
SVz%~ n MONTHS
Other rates and terms available—see Prospectus fpr full
details Prospectus and application form ayaijsbje ijonii
• BROKERS lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EKCHANPJS
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C,
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z, BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of tljp forms Of
application attached to a printed copy of ProspectWS^
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
IWI
An Economy in Suspense
By CROESUS
IN the past three years we’ve been
conditioned to the idea that the full
employment economy only needed
marginal adjustments to top it up. In
this period not many people have been
worried that one or more of the
economic pillars of full employment
could possibly be a bit shaky. Recently,
however, Labor Minister Leslie Bury,
for one, admitted that topping-up at
the present juncture could invite com-
plications which the Government wished
to avoid.
Bury instanced the possibility that
capital inflow could fall off rapidly.
Capital inflow has, of course, been one
of the main pillars of full employment
these past few years. If in the event of
it dropping sharply as postulated by
the Minister for Labor even tfie stimu-
lants supposedly being administered
through the Budget could have uncom-
fortable repercussions, though possibly
Mr. Bury is more convinced than I am
that the Budget will stir the economy
from its present suspended condition.
The complex of forces operating on
what has been pleasantly described as
a “nice” balance in the economy, but
looks to me more like afi uneasy
balance, is more intriguing than for a
long time. At the time of the Budget
the most pertinent of these looked to
be the increasing pressures on. costs, the
declining rate of fixed private invest-
ment, and subdued private consumption.
As far as I could divine the Budget
did nothing to dispel doubts on these
scores except on the broad hypothesis
that effective demand would be lifted
by the deficit element in the huge
increase in Government expenditure so
far as it applied to the domestic
economy.
I can still find no grounds for being
optimistic on costs, investment, and con-
sumption. So, leaving aside such im-
portant factors as the. prospects for
capital inflow, external resources pro-
vision, and the balance of payments
generally, we shall here look at the
outlook for these three. For the near-
term movements in costs look to be the
most vital influence. This is because of
the repercussions of further costs
increases on profit margins (already
heavily squeezed) and on internal
prices and employment opportunities.
The prospect for new job creation is
particularly relevant, considering the
massive batch of school-leavers soon to
descend on the labor market, not to
speak of the ceaseless inflow of immi-
grants. I often wonder whether when
planning the Budget the Treasury takes
sufficient account of the costs position
in industry and is as fully informed as
it should be on this vital aspect of the
economy.
On the score of costs, in its latest
quarterly industrial survey the Bank of
New South Wales found that 60 per-
cent of the 314 sample firms said that
their average cost per unit of out-
put had risen and the rest reported no
change in the three months to mid-
September. This would mainly reflect
wage increases and higher raw materials,
prices in the period but also in a lot
of cases higher overheads per unit of
output because the
bank says that an
increasing percent-
age of the firms
reported were not
working at satis-
factorily full
operating rates.
Increases in trans-
port and service
charges would un-
doubtedly have
contributed, too.
As to the expec-
tations of these 314 firms on costs,
about the same percentage actually
slightly lower at 58—expected their
costs to rise in the three months to
December. This was before the State
budgets had been announced and pre-
sumably didn’t take into account the
rise in margins which the Arbitration
Commission is expected to award
around the end of the year. It is worry-
ing enough that nearly as many firms
as in the previous three months expect
costs per unit of output to increase.
More disturbing than this, however, is
that while only 25 percent of the firms
raised their average selling prices in the
three months to mid-September, in the
next three months 39 percent expect to
do so.
Obviously an increasing number of
firms are finding that the only way to
maintain viable profit margins is to
increase prices. Perhaps many more
would already have followed this course
had they been allowed in the highly
competitive conditions now pertaining
in industry. The question is whether,
come what may, many others will now
be forced to do so as an alternative to
unwinding their activities. If this was
nowhere recognised in the Budget
speech, at least we find the annual
report of the Commonwealth Banking
Corporation saying “all industries will
be faced with increased costs in 1966-
67 and if further large wage rises should
occur during the year there would be
a danger of inflationary pressures
arising.”
>pHE connection of all this with pros-
pects for a revival in the rate of
growth of private fixed investment,
which has been tapering off lately, was
explained by the ANZ Bank in its latest
monthly release, “Business Indicators”—
“to maintain buoyancy in private invest-
ment depends in part on the level of
business profits, published company re-
sults, the level of stocks, and trends of
stock-exchange prices.” Unfortunately,
there is no assurance of favorable move-
ments in any of the four influences
mentioned. What is more, the rate of
interest, which is an equally important
factor in the private fixed investment
equation, shows no signs of coming
down even a fraction in present cir-
cumstances.
Although investment in mining and
transport continues strongly (though
even there we find some big question
marks, for instance, on the future of the
Mt. Newman project which is being
debated in New York this week), the
L. Bury, MP


‘I don't
mind paying
a little less I’
“So when I rent a car I always rent from Kays.
It's good business because I save money. Save time,
too, because I travel interstate at least once a month.
So when I am making my travel arrangements I call
Kays and reserve a 1966 model car of my choice at
my destination. I don't need cash either; I just say
charge it'!”
You, too, can do the same whenever you travel
throughout Australia. Inquire about Kays Credit Card.
So next time you rent, rent from Kays. It’s good
business and whc minds paying a little less.
KAYS
RENTACAR
Throughout Australia.
let Kays put you on wheels!
rate of investment growth in the rest
of industry has slowed to a walk. In
the June quarter there was almost no
increase in the rate of non-manufactur-
ing investment, despite the strength in
mining and transport because of the
reduction in wholesale and retail trade
sectors, while investment in manufactur-
ing was only 5 percent higher than in
the like quarter last year.
The Bank of N.S.W.’s survey found
that fixed investment expectations of
the firms questioned were rather mixed
and no clear picture emerged, except
that, as one had expected, rather more
of the firms intended to reduce their
expenditure on new buildings than three
months earlier.
The Commonwealth Banking Cor-
poration itself is non-committal on
whether the improvement in fixed in-
vestment in housing (demonstrated
again last week by the latest approvals
figures as well as the record amount the
savings banks have been putting into
housing) will compensate for the slower
rate of growth in non-home construc-
tion and other investment. Prospects
for further growth in the latter fields,
it thinks, are difficult to gauge.
While some observers purport to see
a stronger trend of personal spending
developing this year, there are cer-
tainly no signs of it yet.
My own impression—which is rein-
forced by the noted improvement in
savings in recent months —is that the
propensity to spend is tending to
weaken, that consumers are going a
little further into their shells, not out
of them. The general feeling is that
unemployment and business will both
get worse before they get better. If
the Government were not so sure of
itself I would imagine it would be
doing more to improve the immediate
prospect despite those nasty possible
complications Mr. Bury has been telling
Parliament about. But for the moment,
anyhow, “topping-up” is apparently not
required for political purposes.
J. C. HORSFALL'S MELBOURNE
Many a Blush in Toorak
ST. KILDA supporters couldn’t
have picked a better statue than
Sir Thomas Bent’s, erected in
1913 on the Pt. Nepean Road a few
yards from where the ex-Victorian
Premier once lived, to deck with the
club guernsey after winning their first
League premiership the other day.
Long before the club started in the
League in 1899, Bent had kicked more
golden goals in property deals across
the no-man’s-land between St. Kilda
and its new home at Moorabbin than
Daryl Baldock ever dreamed of.
What’s more, in his later years his
motto was “Bent, never beaten.” After
a lot of financial ups and downs,
political ins and outs, Bent was 67 when
he got his first premiership. Give or
take a few months, this is just how
long it took St. Kilda to win theirs.
We are reminded of these and
other intriguing details of Bent’s
extraordinary life, crammed with finan-
cial and political manoeuvrings, by
Michael Cannon’s engaging new book,
“The Land Boomers” (Melbourne
University Press: $7.50), which gives
an intimate insight into Victoria’s
financial experiences during the 40-or-
so years up to 1910. Although this
absorbing work is heavily laden with
adventures, mostly financial, in which
the forebears of many presently notable
Victorian families were involved,
Bent’s catch the eye more than any
of the others, if only because (unlike
roost of the leading figures in the
land boom) he managed to stay
solvent.
Land speculators and developers
who have paid dearly for their folly
and brought a sad collection of inves-
tors into the bog with them in Vic-
toria in the past few years will writhe
a t the ease with which the land
boomers of the 1880 s and ’9os managed
to Escape the consequences of their
recklessness by making secret compo-
sitions with their creditors. Cannon
has done a masterly job of research
on this. His long lists of people to
have made such compositions should
cause many a blush along the avenues
of present-day Toorak.
But before they turn the faces of their
grandfathers to the wall they can con-
sole themselves with the thought that
practically the whole community was
speculating wildly at one time or
another in those days (there was no
TAB then). Also, it has to be remem-
bered that company law was very lax,
that politicians and often Cabinet
Ministers were heavily involved in some
of the biggest speculative deals and pro-
motions, and that even Her Majesty’s
Justices were prepared on occasion to
wink an eye (if Mr. Isaac Isaac’s, who
was later to be Governor-General of
the Commonwealth, wasn’t looking),
particularly when important personages
were implicated, as they often were.
Political chicanery was accepted as part
of the way of life, even more so than
it is today (sic). Nobody thought it at
all improper for a Victorian Minister
of Railways to extend a railway line
into one of his own land subdivisions
or to demand political support from
others for whom he could do the same
favor.
Perhaps Cannon is at his best in
a lot of finanacial ups and downs,
unravelling the lifelines of the dominant
financial and political figures of the
time; the pages are packed with new
information on such shades from the
dim past. We get just the right sort of
pen pictures of these characters to stride
with them in their brisk financial paces.
The background is so well painted that
we can sit with them in the courts,
where a good many of them landed up
at one time or another, or in the parlors
of the free-wheeling financial institu-
tions (if a land bank can be deemed
such), being financially refreshed or,
more likely, being brought to account.
They were devils, you say in putting
down the book, and then you reflect
also on their achievements, get into the
teasing question whether Melbourne
would have been built without their
enterprise and even their speculations.


WILD CAT
PAGES
A Question of Mettle
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
HOW much is Western Mining’s nickel really worth? Two of Melbourne’s
leading broking houses (“leading” in two very different ways) have comf
out with strikingly different answers.
According to a lengthy publication
by the A. C. Goode firm, Western Min-
ing stands to gain an annual nickel in-
come of about $2.1 million for four
years from 1969 (and $1 million in
1968) from its declared one million
tor of nickel ore reserves. But Bail-
lieu’s, the Collins House broking firm,
have also done an exercise which indi-
cates an annual nickel income of $2.8
.< , . c . 7 £
million on the basis of an output of
4aaa 4, r 4.1 A •.i
4000 tons of nickel metal a year, with
the possibility of this increasing to $3.7
...r \
m.lhon f outpu rose to 5000 tons
Both broking houses have, naturally,
not taken into account the substantial
increases in nickel reserves that the
company recently announced it had
discovered in further drilling, as there
is no indication yet of size of values.
These extra reserves make the propo-
sition look even more attractive, but
there are some doubts that it was quite
as magnificent as these two brokers
indicated in the first place on the old
basis of one million tons or 5.3 percent
nickel ore which would be used at the
rate of 100,000 tons a year.
For, on the face of it, Baillieu’s omit-
ted to deduct developmental costs of
the mine that could involve write-offs
rising up to $1 million a year, as de-
velopment costs will probably total
around s4| million dollars,
Goode’s included development write-
offs j n their calculations, but appear
to suggest the company will achieve
IQO percent recovery of the nickel con-
tent of the ore, which would be impos-
sible, while Baillieu’s take the realistic
view that recoveries should be between
g 0 percent and 90 percent.
, n „ •i, * Q n
Lroode s quote a nickel price or o(J
„ a « -n-„>* c n u„,.
cents e ton. i3Hillien s Quote oU but
f anDears to be
s ° me . ot thls . dltt erence appears to be
one is on a c.i.f. basis and the other an
f . 0 . b .. there is also a differen ce in their
expectations of mining costs with Bail-
lieu>s talking of $9 a ton and Goode a
little higher
But o B ne [ hing does emerge out of
this. Western Mining is now an even
more interesting stock than ever.
f I HHE Darrell Lea Chocolates float,
being handled by A. C. Goode
and Co., comes only a year or so
after other listed chocolate makers’
profits were hard hit when cocoa price
falls brought stock losses. They are
now all on the upward profit trail
again,
But stock values do not seem to have
worried Darrell Lea, as the question is
not raised in the prospectus as a factor
in the company’s 1964 result, which
directors say was affected by the move
to the new leasehold factory at
Kogarah. Neither the 1963 nor 1964
results would have covered the pro-
posed 12| percent dividend, but the
1965 one (on the way to being bettered
in 1965-66, the 12-monthly period that
ended three months ago for which the
company has not yet reported) pro-
vided adequate cover from a 24 per-
cent earning rate.
THERE’S understood to be great
activity behind the scenes to im-
prove the deal being offered to
debenture holders in the Cox Bros,
scheme of arrangement. It seems that
the unsecured creditors, whose interests
have been put above the debenture
holders in the scheme, are under pres-
sure to throw something into the ring
to appease the secured creditors. More-
over it seems quite possible that they’ll
agree.
IF the A. J. Veall family interests
are probably going to reap the big-
gest harvest from A. and K.
Cement’s takeover of Gippsland Cem-
ent for the A. and K. share equivalent
of 95 cents a share (against the pre-
deal market price of 53 cents), nobody
will probably begrudge them. Almost
from the beginning in 1953 they have
backed this sick child of Victorian de-
centralisation and stuck to it through
thick and thin.
But we should spare a thought also
for the investment implications of the
takeover for the public company, Vealls
Securities and Finance Ltd., which
directly and also through its big stake
in the main family company, Corartie
Pty. Ltd., stands to benefit from the
deal.
A search of the company’s register
reveals that the main blocks of Gipps-
land Cement’s shares thrown into the
deal were those of Corartie Pty. Ltd.
and Traralgon Investments (another
Veall family company). But there were
others in nominee names and the pre-
cise number of shares owned by the
Veall complex is indeterminate. Tak-
ing options into account, it could com-
prise up to the 50 percent of Gipps-
land Cement shares sold so far to A.
and K. (Holders of the remaining
Gippsland Cement shares are to get
an equivalent offer of 95 cents a share.)
On the face of it, of course, a share
whose dividend is covered 2.9 times,
where the dividend yield is nearly
7 percent, and the net assets backing
more than double par value might seem
anachronistic. But there hasn’t been
a rush to buy Vealls’ 50-eent shares
on this basis since the cement deal.
They edged up slightly, however, from
$l.ll to $1.14 last week.
Quite apart from doubts about who
The Chartist says:
WHALE INDUSTRIES now appears as a very promising recovery situation
on the chart and has recently broken the long-term downtrend which had
continued at an overall rate of approximately 20 percent depreciation per
annum. The stock fell from a high point of $l.Bl in 1960 to a low point of 21c
early 1963, and after a period of consolidation prices managed to rise to 55c before
resuming the long-term downtrend. Since the low point of 25c in December, 1965,
the stock has followed an uptrend at an approximate rate of 90 percent, which
would be considered very steep, and it is quite likely that this rate will be lowered
at some time. A short to medium term projection of about 60c would be possible,
but there is considerable resistance around the 50c level from the range of trading
in 1964. The overall base consolidation suggests a price rise to approximately $1.50
for the long term. Last sale price on 27/9/66, 42c.


Week’s
Aluminium, ton
Copper, w.b., ton
Gold, oz.
Lead, ton
Silver, oz.
Tin, ton
Wolfram, unit
Zinc, ton
Wheat, Aust. ton
This week
£ 196
cnange
Year ago
£ 196
£ 447V2
+ £ 351/2
£487
£ 12/12/2
—
£ 12/11/3
£ 863/4
" £ 37/a
£ 1063/8
112d.
llli/4d.
£ 12151/2
£ 14/16/0
+ £ 7
£ 1515
£ 11
£ 963/4
£ 28
+ £53/4
£ 1091/8
£ 253/4
Linseed oil, ton
Coffee' 50 ki,0S
Cotton, Av. lb.
Cesicc. c/nut, ton
Rubber, lb
Sugar, ton
Tea, lb.
Wool tops
£ 86V2
+ £11/2
£ 89
181/6
+9/9
128/9
240/-
+2/-
withdrawn
22.10d.
+0.8d.
23.20'd.
£ 125
- £ 1
£ 160
17 15-16d.
£ 141/2
-l-16d.
20i/ a d.
£21
4/2 to 6/5
-Id.
5/2 to 6/8
M’s ib.
118d.
-2d.
Hid.
get with the
stetson 100 k...
the look of
success in
patterned felts
Last season we pre-
dicted Stetson pat-
terned felts would be
the most talked about
hats of the year. And
they certainly are!
These are the hats
that have success
written all over them,.
And they write it all
over you.
In every hat you’ll
see the unmatched
quality of fine Stet-
son craftsmanship.
Ask to try one on
soon at your favour-
ite men’s store.
Hg
1
■ ■ •. ■
i 1
§1
m
K
m
t
/
STETSON CENTENNIAL
STETSON
will get the major benefit from the
sale of the Gippsland Cement shares,
investors have been wary about future
prospects since, in mid-year, the public
company decided to sell most of its
suburban electrical appliance shops in
Melbourne, leaving only the Richmond
and city store in trading, and in that
sphere to concentrate mainly on whole-
saling, television, and allied service
activities.
Contrary to the general impression,
the company has had a declining and
only small part of its assets in trading
activities in recent years—only 11 per-
cent of profits from all sources came
thuswise in the latest year reported
(1964-65) and most came from trade
investments. The big question for in-
vestors has been to determine just how
far the public company is dependent
on the private company taking in its
washing and what the flow of income is
from outside. So far, the market hasn’t
given Vealls’ shares the benefit of its
doubts, though this could change.
THE Chartist, whose recent recom-
mendation to buy L. J. Hooker
Corporation shares has paid off
quite well, has pointed out that, unfor-
tunately, another recommendation has
so far not come out so well at all—but
also points out that in this work there
are repeated examples of extreme
pessimism before optimism.
The Chartist says: “Since the recom-
mendation (Bulletin, July 9), Tennyson
Textiles failed to break the resistance
level at 92c and prices have receded
toward the base of the 1965-66 trading
rectangle at 70c during the current
general bearishness of the market.
Should prices fall below this level, in-
vestors could expect a minimum prob-
able downside objective of approxi-
mately 55c, and at this point the situa-
tion would again call for reassessment.”
Unless some unexpected weakness
appears in the proposed merger with
STP into Universal Textiles of Aus-
tralia, the “fundamental” view of this
stock should be that at prices around
70c the shares look to be good buying,
despite some evidence of a slowdown
in business in recent months.
IT would take some courage to buy
the building industry stocks that
the market is so relatively un-
impressed about at present. But if the
upward trend shown in the latest
building statistics continues, then the
industry could have a reasonable year
in 1965-66.
The 6.8 percent dividend yield
available from the long-established
Melbourne-based John Mcllwraith In-
dustries group at least attracts attention
—provided, of course, that the Mel-
bourne broker who has been keeping
up a running stream of sales for the
last 12 months has eventually dried up.
The annual result was well down due
to the fall in dwelling construction, but
directors expect the current year to be
better than 1965-66, when earning rate
of 20 percent covered the 15 percent
dividend. This company’s share price
has been cut in half in the last two
years, which seems a bit harsh.
Brickworks’ modest profit rise was
unimpressive in view of its lower
interest charge following the conversion
of its 423,000 notes into shares last
December, but the company seems in
an excellent position to benefit from
what still appears to be something of
a shortage of face bricks. And in any
event its 15 percent dividend was
backed by a 28 percent earning rate.
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
(All figures in sterling)


«*>
Finance Corporatim
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
3
PER ANNUM 9 YEARS
2
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
7:
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
6sr»
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6%
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
51%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
54%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
4i%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form
referred to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of
application should be obtained from:
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
XRN. 2
MINING
The Search For Phosphate
THE past two years have seen a
marked increase in the tempo of
exploration for economic deposits
of phosphate rock in Australia. For a
deposit to be an attractive commercial
proposition, it should have minimum
reserves of 20 to 30 million tons with
values of not less than 15 percent P 205.
No major deposits have yet been dis-
covered, but the ranks of those engaged
upon the search are constantly growing,
Admittedly, the existence of small
deposits in all mainland States has long
been known, and limited tonnages have
been produced, principally in South
Australia, Victoria, and Western Aus-
tralia. However, mostly these deposits
have been too high in iron oxides and
alumina for superphosphate manufac-
ture.
Company participation in the search
has been strongly encouraged by the
Commonwealth Government through
the Bureau of Mineral Resources which
in 1964, implemented a program to
collect fundamental data for the use of
interested parties. The Government’s
concern is clearly understandable in
view of the alarming growth in the
import bill for phosphate rock, which
has almost doubled since 1961 to its
1965 level of $17.3 million. As such, it
is second only to crude petroleum in
Australia’s mineral import bill. Over
the same four-year period the tonnage
imported has increased by 40 percent
to just over million, and the average
f.o.b. value per ton imported has risen
from about $5.40 to $6.90.
In line with a steadily growing local
demand for phosphate fertilisers, ton-
nages of phosphate rock imported into
Australia seem likely to rise even
further. Future costs per ton are also
likely to be higher in view of the de-
clining proportion being supplied by
the cheaper and nearer sources on
Nauru, Ocean Island, and Christmas
Island. In 1963 these three sources sup-
plied virtually all Australia’s phosphate
rock imports but, in the past two years,
imports from other sources, principally
the U.S.A., have grown rapidly and
now acount for over one quarter of the
total. This proportion seems likely to
grow further. It is estimated that
economic reserves on Nauru and Ocean
Island are only sufficient for another
20 years. Plans in hand to double out-
put from Christmas Island will offset
this to some degree.
JN view of the urgent need for Aus-
tralia to discover its own local phos-
phate deposits, the Bureau of Mineral
Resources arranged for two American
specialists, Dr. Tj. H. van Andel and
Dr. R. P. Sheldon to visit Australia
in 1965 to assess the potential for the
existence of such deposits and to ad-
vise on aspects of the search for phos-
phate, both on land and on the sea
floor. Reports of their findings were
released in June, 1966.
Dr. Andel who was investigating the
potential for submarine deposits, recom-
mended several areas for reconnais-
sance investigations, in particular the
areas off North-Western Australia, banks
near the Bismarck and Solomon Islands,
and banks in the Coral Sea. Dr. Sheldon,
in his report on the Continental search,
considered that the best prospects for
phosphate in Australia lie in the older
Palaeozoic rocks of Eastern Australia.
The Bureau of Mineral Resources is
now investigating these findings and
will advise generally on those areas
worthy of more detailed investigation


'JL
4 n
! -1
i
i
-
mmm'
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
%-r n
m
4
t
i^Si
if
«#
SUPERMARKETS
m
WL
< ',s
DEPARTMENT STORES
'*■■
H
((Pi
4W
OFFICES
Increase working efficiency 9.5%
decrease absenteeism 2.5%
with POPE Air Conditioning
POPE Air Conditioning creates the weather you want-
cools in summer, warms in winter, stimulates concentra-
tion, increases work capacity, reduces physical fatigue.
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY: POPE Air Conditioning
raises office efficiency 9.5% by creating ideal working
conditions. Better staff are attracted to your employment
and you hold them longer. With dust and dirt removed
from the air, cleaning and redecorating bills are cut to a
minimum.
DEPARTMENT STORES: Staff are more courteous and
able to cope easily with rushes when they enjoy the
benefits of POPE Air Conditioning. Merchandise stays
clean and fresh, and everyone prefers to shop in air
conditioned premises.
OFFICES: Your staffs energy isn’t being constantly
sapped by excessive humidity or bitter cold when your
premises are air conditioned by POPE. Automatically,
moisture is balanced. Automatically, dust and pollen are
removed from the air—employees are less prone to hay
fever, colds and flu; absenteeism reduced 2.5%.
SUPERMARKETS: POPE Air Conditioning makes business
far more enjoyable right throughout the year. Perishable
goods stay fresh and, for those working or shopping in
your store, the atmosphere is as pleasant as a spring day.
POPE Air Conditioning is a sound financial investment
for summer and provides warmth in winter without any
additional capital expenditure. You’ll find it soon pays
for itself.
Let a POPE engineer, free and without obligation, report
and quote on your air conditioning requirements. We
offer the finest Australia-wide service with authorised
agents operating from all capital cities and major
country areas. Please write, call or phone your nearest
SIMPSON POPE office soon.
SIMPSON POPE LTD. BRANCHES AT:
VIC.: 128-144 Wellington St., Collingwood. 41 0291. N.S.W.:
68-72 Kingsgrove Rd., Belmore. 78 0111. QLD.: 31 College
St., Whinstanes, Brisbane. 68 2021. S.A.: Pope St.,
Beverley. 4 5027. W.A.: Walter Rd., Morley. 76 1411.
POPE
AIR CONDITIONING
Manufacturers of
Australia's largest
range of packaged
commercial, industrial
and residential
air conditioners—
air-cooled, water-cooled
and reverse cycle.


by interested companies. A Common-
wealth subsidy for phosphate search has
also been suggested.
The Bureau itself undertook ex-
ploration for phosphate in 1963 and
1964 in the Northern Territory and
located phosphate occurrences near Rum
jingle and in the Amadeus Basin. At
Rum Jungle, the inadequacy of proven
reserves together with the existence of
haematite in the rock presented diffi-
culties for the manufacture of super-
phosphate, while the potential for
economic deposits in the Amadeus Basin
was regarded as low.
One of the most interesting develop-
ments in the search for phosphate is
the recent announcement that Contin-
ental Oil Company of Australia had
commenced an intensive exploration
program over a 12,000-square-mile
area in the Sydney Geological Basin.
This area extends from Muswellbrook
in the north to Nowra in the south,
and to around Gulgong and Goulburn
in the west.
Apparently the company has already
located indications of an outcrop of
phosphate rock in a Sydney suburb,
but it will be some months before a
decision on its commercial prospects
can be made. Continental’s U.S. parent
company, which last May acquired a
73 percent interest in Amalgamated
Chemicals Ltd., is probably the major
producer and distributor of fertiliser in
the U.S. with annual sales approaching
$U.5.150 million. Continental has
already announced its intention of
establishing a new fertiliser manufac-
turing company in Australia, in which
it will offer Amalgamated Chemicals
Ltd. a substantial equity. Any com-
mercial discoveries of rock phosphate
under its current exploration program
would be used as feed-stock for the
new fertiliser company.
JNCIDENTALLY, Continental has
also applied for a 5000-square-mile
phosphate exploration area in the Otway
Basin in Victoria.
Another company which plans to
search for phosphate deposits in Wes-
tern Victoria is Esso Mineral Company
of Australia, a subsidiary of Esso
Standard Oil (Aust.) Ltd. Esso has
applied for exploration licences cover-
ing a 3429-square-mile area between
Geelong and Hamilton.
Exploration licences totalling 1915
square miles in western and central-
eastern Victoria have also been granted
to International Minerals and Chemical
Corporation, of Illinois, U.S.A. This
company, which is currently exporting
some 200,000 tons of phosphate rock to
Australia from Florida, also holds
prospecting rights for phosphate near
Orange, N.S.W., where discoveries of
interesting phosphate occurrences have
been reported.
In Western Australia, E.Z. Industries
Ltd. has obtained temporary licences
to prospect for phosphate rock on its
own account and in association with
another firm. The Western Australian
Mines Department has also received
applications for temporary licences for
phosphates and other minerals cover-
ing 415,000 square miles off the
Western Australian coast between
Eucla and Broome. Applicants include
Ocean Mining AG of Switzerland,
Ampol Mining Pty. Ltd., BP Oil
Supplies Pty. Ltd., Phosphate Explora-
tion Pty. Ltd., and Ocean Mineral Sur-
veys Pty. Ltd.
• In South Australia, Planet Oil Com-
pany NL is testing a prospect near
Kapunda, 45 miles NNE of Adelaide.
This area was the source of most of the
State’s recorded production prior to
1954 and is part of a 200-mile belt of
phosphate deposits which are mostly
too impure for superphosphate manu-
facture. Planet also hold phosphate ex-
ploration licences in the Cape Otway
area of Victoria and in northern Tas-
mania.
Within recent months a further three
American companies, namely American
Cyanamid Co. of New Jersey, Oro
Grande Lime & Stone Co. of Cali-
fornia, and Valdez Mines Ltd. of Cali-
fornia, have stated their intention to
search for phosphate deposits in Aus-
tralia.
Judging by the above incomplete
but nevertheless impressive, list of com-
panies engaged in this vital search, the
Government’s policy to encourage
company participation has so far been
very successful. It is to be hoped that
their exploration efforts will result in
the discovery of local deposits of major
commercial importance.
COMMODITIES
Steady Outlook For Tin
THE International Tin Council has
forecast 1967 world tin production
at 171,100 tons, and demand at
178,800 tons, leaving a deficit of 7700
tons for the year. This would represent
a continuation in the trend toward a
closing of the demand gap from
22,000 tons in 1964 to 14,100 tons in
1965 to an expected .10,400 tons this
year. Of course any gaps are easily met
by U.S. stockpile sales.
In the shorter term, therefore, all
the indications continue to point to
prices around £stg.l2oo a ton, with
both the International Tin Council and
.U.S. releases probably establishing a
floor there. However, the longer term
is an open question. The life of U.S.
stockpile releases is being extended from
earlier estimates as the production
deficit narrows. The releases would last
for another decade at the expected 1967
short fall.
On the other hand, much of the
present boost in supply comes from
small operations, especially in Malaysia.
Also many of the new mines have only
sufficient reserves for a few years’ opera-
tions. Thailand, and perhaps Indonesia,
appear likely to provide a more solid
base for increased output, but again not
on a very large scale—not yet, anyway.
An important factor is the depen-
dence of a significant proportion of
present tin output on high prices, so
when prices fall, production will be cut
more quickly than would be the case
in, say, the lead-zinc industry, where
giant international organisations can
afford to operate at low profitability for
long periods.
As well as this basic underpinning,
the tin market has the ITC and the U.S.
stockpile as buffers. The chances of the
producer-consumer group, the ITC, be-
ing able to hold prices up are better for
tin than would be the case in most
other metals.
The Council has £3O million ster-
ling at its disposal for buying on the
LME in cash and a bank support,
which could be an important buffer
under these circumstances.
On the consumption side, substitu-
tion is taking place, and market growth
depends on new technical developments
—both in encouraging and inhibiting
tin use—but no drastic cut in demand
seems in the least probable.
AS Australia moves toward becom-
ing a producer of nickel ore
from Western Mining Corpora-
tion’s W.A. deposit pressures for a
lift in the metal’s price are rapidly
mounting. International Nickel, the
Canadian producer of the metal, has
been plagued by strikes at a time when
demand is already outstripping supplies.
The present £642 a ton price (in the
U.K., with corresponding levels else-
where) has ruled since May, 1962. Inco
as the dominant supplier, is also the
price-setter. A 25 percent rise in wage
costs (over three years) as well as the
loss of production will certainly weigh
heavily in Inco’s pricing decisions.
THE importance for New Guinea’s
tea industry of developing a
quality product is emphasised by the
growing over-supply of low quality teas
on world markets. Although the rapid
growth of output in nations new to the
industry has to a degree weakened
prices for all types of tea, the plain
grades have suffered most.
In 1966 world production is likely
to be 50 million lbs. above 1965, mainly
in plain types. Low prices have badly
hit Ceylon’s - tea growers. Australian
tea merchants should be gaining from
the trend, however. And, as Britain
accounts for about a quarter of world
consumption, the credit squeeze there,
and its effects on merchants’ costs, will
be a depressing influence for some
months.


Shuri
Par
Value
Dlv.
cents
Year
aflo
Week
ago
close
1966
High |Low 1
Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
Yield %
Div.|Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyile
.50
2
1.85
2 26
2 12
2.58
1.90
4,200
1,800
.50
.92
1.15
1.12
1.40
.89
4,700
2,400
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
4.30
5.42
5.45
5.45
4.80
1,050
a.o.g.
.50
2 18
2.36
2.24
2 81
2.26
7,150
2,200
B H. south
■50
U = '
2 42
2 60
2.48
2.90
2.24
11,150
20,200
4.4
5.3
C.R.A.
.50
8
3.68
5.38
5 36
5 82
3.92
5,300
3,450
1.5
3.9
1.00
7
1.75
2.57
2 56
2.85
1.90
3,300
2,200
3.5
5.7
K 1, Scheel'
.50
10
1.55
2.66
2 55
3.25
1.89
6,600
5,000
.50
10
3.58
4.40
4.37
4.71
3.92
13,050
24,800
2.3
4.0
1.00
15
1.70
2 62
2.66
2.90
1.90
9,700
5,500
5.6
13.2
Mi! Lyal 1
.25
4 5
.99
1 44
1.43
1.58
1.25
11,300
15,600
3.1
10.0
Niw Ei.H.
.62
38
4.60
4.40
4.40
4 40
4.25
900
2,900
10.2
12.2
Oil Starch
.50
.18
.16
.15
.20
.12
15,000
28,900
.50
15
5.70
7.70
7.70
7.80
S. 00
100
600
.25
I. 68
2.28
2.05
3.09
1.40
3,100
5,600
.50
10
2.40
5.92
6.00
6.16
2 45
18,400
32,300
1.7
1.5
Woodilde
.50
.26
.88
.87
1.00
.20
2,500
4,800
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C,
.50
4.55
1.02
1 041 1.071 1,12
1.00
8,900
6,800
4.1
10.4
1.00
12.5
1 2.72
2.02
2.05
2.9C
2.04
1,200
200
6.1
9 8
Adel. Steam
.50
4.0C
. 68
.69
.66
.80
.64
8,500
7,400
6.1
7.1
.50
5
2.12
1.6i
1.61
2.50
1.61
3.0
5.9
1.00
10
1.85
1.72
1.72
2.1C
1.56
5 E
8.3
Allied Mil'll
.50
6
1.71
1.60 1.6C
1,95
1.60
2,950
500
3.e
9.0
.50
5.0C
.80
.71
.69
1.5C
.68
3,700
4C0
7,?
11.8
a.w.a
.50
8
2.5C
2.01
2.0i
2.42
1.87
5,600
1,800
31,500
3.9
7.0
Ampol'
.50
7
.94
.66
.66
1,02
.64
26,700
10,6
12.7
.50
5
.71
.69
.70 .83
.6;
27,550
10,300
7.1
13.6
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.5C
1.5C
1.4C
1.7C
1.4C
1,700
3,300
3,6
6.8
1.00
9.5
1.4C
1.38
1.3/
1.71
1.35
5,250
9,300
6,9
10.6
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
5.55
5.41
5 5C
6.3C
5.4C
1,500
500
5.5
6,1
A.K, Cemant
.50
5
1.4E
1.19
1.06
1.62
1.02
35,750
29,300
4.7
8.3
Ault. Chem.
1.00
10
2 55
1.7C
1.70
2.55
1,50
1,850
900
5,9
8.2
A.C.I.
1.00
10
2.71
2.76
2.82
2.82
2.69
i 20,950
16,700
3.5
6.9
Auit. Fart.
2.00
16
5.58
3.85
3.8C
5.20
3.7!
850
4 ?
7.5
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1.58
1.47
1 47
1 52
1.22 17,000
4,000
5,1
9.9
A.P.M.
1.00
9.0
1.57
1.5C
1.48
1,87
1,45
20,400
23,600
6 1
8.5
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
5.05
3,65
3.65
3 65
3.15
100
4,400
5 5
6.2
A.U.C.
1.00
10
5.50
3.90
3.9C
4 00
3,71
200
2 6
6 9
Bank Adel.
1.00
10
2.20
2.18
2.18
2.46
2,15
4,6
7.7
Bank N.S.W.
2.00
20
5.78
5.04
5.01
5,68
4.82
6,930
1,750
4.0
7.6
Bellambl
.50
5
2.50
1,70
1.7C
2.44
1.67
3,200
2,9
5.4
Btrlel
1.00
15
2.90
2.40
2.31
3,30
2.29
1,400
6,5
14.0
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.57
1.50
1.41
1.87
1,39
9,000
5,200
5.3
7.8
Bond* Ind,
.50
6
.92
1.16
1.12
1.18
.96
5,300
5.4
11.9
Bo rul
.50
10
2.11
1.80
1.73
2.40
1,72
11,150
2,200
5.8
6.4
Borg Warner
Brad. Cotton
Bramble*
1.00
2.05
1.65
1.65
2,05
1 50
1,100
9.0
.50
5
.60
.62
.63
63
.56
6,730
3,400
7,9
11 2
.50
7.5
1.72
1.47
1,43
1.92
1.43
8,000
1,800
5 2
8.5
Brit. Tobacco
1.00
12
5.22
2.29
2.25
2,46
1,77
10,500
9,300
5.3
8,0
B.H.P.
2.00
18.4
4.64,
5.86
5 90
6.54
4.45
39,925
38,750
3,1
5.2
Bruck Mill*
.50
6.25
.59
.68
.72
,77
5.3
5,300
6,600
8.7
18.3
Burnt Phi Ip
1.00
10
5.67
3.54
3 50
4,14
.3 44
13,750
4,400
12,000
2.9
7,5
C.U.B. “Z"
1.00
15
5.75
3.40
3 45
3,90
3,32
200
3 8
6,3
Carp,, W, R,
,50
7.5
2.22
2.45
2.45
2,75
2 40
6,450
3,100
3.1
6.3
Carrier Air
.50
4.5
.65
.65
,57
80
.51
4,200
3,100
7.9
14.2
Cm'alne Perk
1.00
17 '
5.90
5,98
5.97
6 50
3,93
150
1,500
2.8
5.3
Chamberlain
.50
6.25
1.45
1.32
1.32
1 53
1,23
2,500
1,800
4,7
22 4
Clyde Ind.
.50
7.5
1.00
.90
.91
1.10
.90
23,700
8.2
13.0
.50
5
1,01
1,60
1,53
1,73
1.26
7,750
1,100
49,300
3.3
9.1
.50
5.5
1.58
1.22
1.13
1.41
1.09
37,100
4.9
7 4
C.S.R.
1.00
12.5
2.79
2.85
2,87
3 26
2.64
16,550
15,000
4,4
8 0
C.A.G.A.
1.00
10
1.45
1.46
1 46
1 65
1.30
7,950
3,400
6 8
9.7
C.B.C.
1.00
10
2.46
2.03
2.08
2 65
1.93
5,588
300
4 8
8 6
C.B.A.
i.oo
10
2.28
1.95
• 1.90
2 27
1,83
1,700
2,300
2,000
5,3
7 8
.50
4.5
1.40
1.30
1 32
1 ,44
1.02
3,750
3.4
6.3
C.I.G.
1.00
11
5.55
2.57
2.50
3,32
2,50
1,300
1,300
4.4
1 10 8
.50
.45
.34
.36
.48
,25
50,450
3,100
12 5
.50
10 •
5.25
2.50
2.50
3 40
2.25
1,900
1,300
4 0
9,9
2.00
16
2.55
2.85
2.80
2,90
2.58
2,200
5,7
10 4
Courtauldi
1.00
4
.75
.48
.46
.75
.45
4,800
800
8.7
14.8
7 6
6.1
Crane, G. E.
1.00
12.5
5.90
4 70
4.70
5 20
4 10
100
100
3 0
2.00
20
4.30
4.60
4 60
6.25
4,60
7,550
3,5
Cult. Credit
.50
5
,67
.80
.80
,86
.63
11,800
6.3
12.6
Cyclone
1.00
10
1.68
1.12
1.15
1,48
1.04
5,100
7,400
8.7
11.4
Dalaety
2.50
25.5
4.85
4.50
4.50
5 00
4.45
650
100
6.7
9.4
D.F.C,
2.00
25
6.45
6.30
6.30
6 55
6.20
100
10,100
21,200
28,800
3.7
7.5
Drug Houses
Dunlop
B.M.I.
1.00
1.00
.50
l on
10
8
8
IB
1.65
1,73
2 30
2.30
1.69
1.18
1.95
2.53
1.65
1,20
1 96
2.52
1.93
1,65
2 15
2 74
1.38
1,14
1 75
2 12
10,350
11.300
1,400
36.300
3.0
6.7
4 1
7.1
4 6
6 8
10 5
8 5
Elder*, G, M.
Elec. "B"
i 00
1 00
JO
10
7
3
2.20
1 08
47
2.43
.58
,38
2.44
.55
.39
2 S3
1 00
51
2.01
.50
.36
2,600
1,200
17,500
1,900
4,300
16,500
4.1
12 7
7 7
8.9
15 8
7 9
E.S.A.
2 50
14.69
4.68
5 30
5 12
6 00
5.10
300
300
4 9
9 8
8 2
Event Deekln
.50
6 25
1.20
1 38
1.33
1.40
1.05
6,300
200
3.8
Fairfax, J.
.50
8.5
2 55
2 25
2.23
2 80
2 10
5,900
Falrym.ad
F.lt. Text.
Fbre Cont.
Fielding, J.
Gen, .Credit*
Goi'ltn lnd '
Gordon Gotch
grace Brot.
Handle, J.
Healing, A. G
Herald, W. T.
Hooker, L, J.
Hume.
Huttoni
I'AeC.
■C.I.A.N.Z.
■"ter. Reslit.
Jon«, David
J j>nu, Henry
Kauri
K.lvlnator
Koltakl
J-eate
Saver*
te ht - j -
MacRobertion
Marrlckvlll*
Maur Bro*.
Nlcklaaa
1.00
.50
.50
1.00
,50
2,00
.50
.50
.50
1.00
.50
,50
.50
1.00
.50
.50
2.00
.50
.50
1,00
.50
.50
.50
.50
.50
1.00
2 00
1.00
.50
.50
1.00
6
5
6
17.5
4 ■
12
4.5
10
6.25
10
12.5
2.08
.68
1 65
3.85
.53
.96
.68
2.52
1,61
5.85
.57
4.48
.47
1,38
.50
1.35
3.50
.55
1.25
.75
2.02
1.42
5.06
.20
4.33
.34
1 40
.50
1.35
3,55
,56
1.25
.75
2 00
1.40
4.95
.21
4 25
.35
2 10
.61
1 40
3.72
.60
1.38
.88
2.70
1.91
5.10
.58
5.23
,39
1 36
48
1 23
2 43
.50
.93
.70
2.00
1,37
4 40
,19
4 20
.24
1,200
8,250
900
950
2,000
4,800
1,600
10,250
1.700
9,500
2.700
79,800
11,800
1,100
8/500
1,400
1,900
250
17,500
15,200
25,900
4 3
10 0
4.4
4.9
7.1
9 6
6.0
5 0
4.5
2.0
2.9
n.i
8.5
7.9
10.7
19 4
11.9
6.9
7.6
7.7
40.5
4.0
10.0
12 5
5
6.0
15
6.25
6.75
10
7.5
12 5
5
8
11
51.68
8
7.5
5
12 5
2 55
1.00
,80
4.30
1.12
1.44
4 05
.42
2.28
1.2B
.93
2.40
2.68
6 28
1.65
1.16
1.79
2.95
2.45
1,15
.85
3.63
.91
1.35
3.52
.24
1.86
1.45
,81
2 55
2 38
8,20
1.25
1.12
2 00
2.60
2.52
1.17
.87
3.60
.96
1.29
3.45
.24
1,86
1 45
.86
2 62
2.40
8.20
1 23
.99
2 01
2 60
2 90
1,17
.94
4.32
1,43
1.63
4 10
,27
2 08
1.45
1,25
2 62
2 63
8 40
1 60
1.55
2 09
3.20
2.10
.88
.75
3.60
.83
1.24
3.40
.18
1.85
1.15
.76
2.24
2 14
7.66
1.10
.95
1 82
2 55
1,600
4,000
4,600
7,250
6,500
20,250
1,900
2,650
1,400
13,000
500
2,200
36,025
1.300
27,800
9.300
2,200
4.700
3,300
8,100
9,600
1.700
2,800
1,400
13,500
3,000
1,100
600
2,200
900
2,900
1,000
1,100
3,200
2.0
4 3
6.9
4.2
6.3
5 2
2.9
4.0
8,6
5 8
3.1
4.6
3.9
6,5
7 6
2 5
4 8
10.6
11.2
5.8
8.0
9 0
8.3
9.1
11.1
10.7
4.4
7.7
3.9
7.1
8 6
5.4
6 3
Share
Par
Value
1 Dlv.
[ cents
1 Year
1 ago
Week
ago
Ido's 1 ;
1966
High |t-ow
Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
Yield %
Dlv.|Earn>
Mcllwralth. J.
.50
7.5
1.50
1.12
1.22
1.501 .99
2,800
2.3001 6.1
8.4
McPherson
2,00
16.6
4.10
3.60
3.4C
4.0E
3.40
2,700
2,000
4.9
8.5>
Mitlaquln
1.00
14
2.65
2 55
2.52
.3.18
2 52
4,400
5.6
7,6
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
2.12
1.64
1.7C
2.07
1.59
9,500
5,100
5.9
14.7
Minster
1.00
20
5.55
2.98
2.7C
5.68
2.70
1,100
2,100
7.4
12.7
Morr,s, Philip
2.00
24
5 82
7.00
7.1C
7.6C
6.20
500
550
3.4
16.7
Moulded Prod. .50
5
.78
.64
.65
.80
.59
4,500
20,100
7.7
9.6.
Myer
.50
8.75
3.15
2 95
2.95
3 56
2.80
8,250
23,500
3.0
6.9
Myttons
.50
6
1.80
1.40
1.4C
1,64
1.40
6,000
3,800
4.2
7.5
N.Z. Forest
1.25
9.56
2.72
2.78
2.77
3.03
2.60
650
300
3.4
9.3
Nat, Bank
1.00
10
2.12
1.80
1.79
2.19
1.75
8,900
13,400
5.6
5.9-
Nat. Conso-I.
.50
10
2.48
2.26
2.25
2.45
2.20
1,900
16,000
4.4
8.6
Nat. Dairy
2.25
26.7
41.00
38,00
38.00
42.00
38.00
10
3.0
5.6
News
.50
5
1.35
1.39
1.39
1.82
1.36
100
1,100
3.6
8.6
N.Z. Ins.
1 25
11.5
' 2.88
2.75
2.75
2,82
2.60
5 3
7.8-
Olympic
.50
5
.85
.67
.63
.80
.61
4,200
23,600
7.9
12.1
Optical
1.00
15
4.60
4.30
4 30
4.70
4.11
700
100
3 5
7.3
Overseas
.50
6.0
1.07
1.05
1.03
1.16 .98
1,000
3,100
5.8
11.3
P.G.H.
.50
8
1.59
1.05
1.08
1.60
1.05
2,550
7.4
10.0
Peko
.50
8
1.69
2.32
2.39
2.60
1.85
7,300
7,100
3.3
6.8
Penfolds
.50
6.25
1..50
1.75
1.77
2 03
1.50
5,100
3 5
5.5
Perp, Trustee
2 00
18
3.55
3.60
3.30
3.90
3.50
,1,000
5.1
6.0
Petersvllle
.20
2.5
.50
.57
.52
.66
.51
13,200
36,200
4.8
7.A
Peters, W. A.
.50
6.25
1.64
1.66
1.66
1 93
1.50
300
3.8
7.2,
Pioneer Cone,
.50
6.25
1.26
1.28
1,30
1.62
1.26
28,450
6,800
4.8
9.1
Prestige
.50
6.25
1.12
.76
.76
1,05
.73
100
1,200
8.2
16,1
Provincial Td.
.50
5.5
1.15
1.14
1.00
1,14
1.00
3,150
5.5
9.3
Pye
.50
5
1.55
1.00
1.04
1,55
1.00
900
500
4.8
9.2
Q'land Gan
.50
5
1,01
.94
.99
1.13
.99
5.1
8.5-
Q'land Cement
2.00
20
6.92
7.80
7 80
7.96
7.00
2.8
5.9
Q'land Ins.
1.00
12.5
3.58
4,15
4.15
4.50
4.00
600
3.0
7.1
Q’land Press
1.00
16
4.95
5.00
4.95
5.45
4.75
400
3.2
5.7
Reeds
.50
7
1.80
1.52
1.52
1.74
1.45
2,500
4.6
8.2
Repco
.50
7.5
1.98
2 00
1.94
2.24
.95
3,350
22,300
3 9
6.3
Rocla
.50
7
2.10
1.71
1.71
2.14
1.71
600
5,600
4.1
6,1
Rothmans
1.00
20
3.10
2.60
2,54
.3.15
2,52
5,700
1,900
7.9
13.2.
S.A. Rubber
.50
5.62
1.32
.90
• 9A
1.25
.89
2,550
1,200
6.0
7.7
S.T.P. Hold.
.50
6.25
.89
.87
.83
1.00
.83
500
1,500
7.5
15.7
Schweppes
.60
5,5
1,50
1 50
1.63
1.85
1.45
700
2,000
3,4
6.0
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2.20
2,53
2.53
2.55
2.30
100
3,0
8.2
Simpson Pope
.50
.45
.26
.26
.46
.26
600
1.2
S'leigh, H. C.
.50
5
.63
.63
.59
,72
.55
13,900
13,700
8.5
9.2.
Smith, How.
1.00
10
2.40
2.53
2 54
2.75
2.39
3,900
2,000
3,9
6.8
Softwood
1.00
10
3.05
2.55
2.40
3 25
2.07
200
4,2
22.0
Sth, BfIt. Ins.
1.25
14.16
3.62
3.65
3.75
3.85
2.06
3,450
3.8
7.0
Steamships
.50
6,66
.92
1.08
1.08
1.10
.88
7,000
7,500
6.2
10.0
Stedmans, J.
.50
9
1.92
2.07
2.15
2,20
1.60
5,850
4.2
6.7
Swan Brew,
.50
6.5
2.38
2 43
2.38
2,75
2,21
10,000
15,100
2.7
3.7
Tarax
.50
6
.98
1.22
1.19,
1.35
1,00
1,000
1,900
5.0
9.2
Taubmans
.50
8
1.10
.76
.85
1.18
.76
7,750
800
9.4
10,9
TV Corp.
1.00
20
2.70
3.00
3.05
3,05
2.08
800
6.6
6.6
Thless
.50
8
,46
.92
.95
,95
.63
23,300
4.2
22.3
Tooheys
.50
4.35
1.09
.99
.97
1,21
.96
10,600
4.5
6.9
Tooth
1.00
15.8
4 68
5.08
5.08
5,70
4,90
10,725
3,350
3.1
4.A
Union Carb.
1.00
12 ‘
3.15
3.95
4.04
4.04
3,38
1,450
3.0
7.1
U. E. Box
.63
5.84
1.52
1.25
1.25
1,48
1,05
1,000
500
4.6
11.1
Walker, F. J.
1.00
12.5
1.52
1.48
1.55
1.73
,1,20
2,950
8.1
10,5
Waltons
.50
6.25
.82
.94
,89
1,23
.85
23,300
3,600
7.0
10, Z
Webster, A, G
. .50
7.5
1.28
1 25
1.25
1 50
1.20
6,0
12.3
Williams, F.W.
1,00
10
3.75
4.00
3.85
4,10
2.95
3,000
100
2.6
0.9
Woolwortha
.50
6
1.38
1.17
1.19
1.44
1.16
60,700
44,700
5.0
6.9
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
| SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
>lBSt
All ordinaries . .
314.70
313.56
101.45
101.18
30 leaders . . .
106.46
106.04
Banks
137,41
158.38
102.95
102.72
Other finance . .
497.58
499.06
69.21
68.65
Pastoral ....
228.26
229.07
123.54
124.90
Transport . .
456.09
454.83
92.59
90.32
Retail merchants
317.24
313.92
90.41
88.84
Services ....
46.68
46.69
Foods .
166.13
165.77
101.24
100.10
Textiles . . .
167.75
167.60
70.77
70.72
Chemicals . . .
311.90
311.60
78.47
77.68
Electrical . .
403,35
403.63
59.46
59.26
Paper ....
Building .
99.70
100.66
641.16
636.80
89.38
89.05
Fuel, power . . ,
164.92
159.96
72.88
72.04
Automotive
707.22
691.49
Steel, engineering
459.38
461.06
113,21
113.50
Non-ferrous
1239.29
1230.75
209.02
208.85
OIL |
SUGAR
'
Brisbane ... I
Melbourne . . '[
Week
ago
146.44 1
124.40 |
Friday
last
141.94
121.22 (
Week
ago
107.70 |
Friday
last
103.40
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
f SYDNEY ] MELBOURNE
INDUSTRIAL
MINING
INDUSTRIAL
MINING
<) Sales I Value
Vol. $
1 1000 1 1000
Sales | Value
Vol. | $
1000 | 1000
Sales 1 Value
Vol. $
1000 | 1000
Sales 1 Value
Vol. S
| 1000 1 1000
Week before '1 2468 1 3248 1 841 924
Week to Friday 1 2478 I 2983 | 786 913
1653 2014
2112 \ 2198 .
726 1281
439 852
OVERSEAS INDEXES
London
| "Financial Timas"
New York 1 Tokyo
Dow Jonas ]D. Jonaa
| Inds. | Sacs. | Gold
Inds.
| Ralls
| Avga.
Jan. 3. 1966 • ••
1966 high • •
1966 low
Month ago
Week ago
Latest
338.7
374,2
294.7
304.5
304,10
306.6
78.74
79,43
72.77
73,32
74.78
73.15
,61.3
65.2
51.5
57.6
56.7
37.2
965.54
995,13
767,03
789,09
797.77
772.66
247.3®
271.72
190,48
195.73
196 80
194.19
1430.13
1588.73
1410 43
1470.93
1461.44
1465.43
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
Most market activity centred around rights issues by G. J.
Coles, Petersville, Associated Securities, and Western Mining
Corporation. Interest revives in L. J. Hooker. Over 1.3 m.
shares in Gippsland Cement were sold to A. and K. Cement
on a special basis at 90c. These were believed to have been
sold on behalf of an associate company of Vealls’ Securities
and paved the way for the takeover by A. and K., which
when announced put A. and K. shares down 13c. Marrick-
ville lost 13c on the week in reaction to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s decision to enforce margarine quotas.
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend .. 6.47
MELBOURNE
dividend *43-
eernlngt 8.70-
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend 5.90
earnings 8.74
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3 58
earnings ~ .. . 7.7.9
C WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday-
Short 4 86-
Medium 5 12 5 12
Long . . . . 525 5 25-


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Tougher times for A and K
THE times have changed for Aus-
tralian and Kandos Cement.
Tough (and expert) competition,
a downturn in cement consumption in
the middle of its large expansion pro-
gram, the admission that a large part
of its Kandos cement works was no
good, a disagreement with the tax com-
missioner, and a need to find even more
money to finish the developments that
are still under way, have taken the
glamor from A & K. It may take a
while to return.
And A & K’s bid to acquire small-
scale producer, Gippsland Cement,
looks more a defensive move than one
that would fit naturally into the com-
pany’s expectations for the developing
Gippsland area; it will be many years
before all this company’s output is con-
sumed in Gippsland. The Gippsland
plant may have been useful to a ready-
mixed-concrete operator.
But the main problem facing A & K
is that additions to cement capacity
have to be in big licks that cost a lot
of money, while cement demand cannot
rise in the same-sized jumps. There
is going to be continuing overcapacity
on a fairly large scale for some years
to come.
This could suggest a low likely rate
of utilisation of the remaining older
portions of the Kandos plant; last May
there was still $5.6 million worth of
plant in the books at 1956 valuation
(prior to subsequent depreciation), fol-
lowing the removal of $6.1 million
worth of plant in this category in the
latest write-off. The plant written off
had been depreciated in the latest ten
years by $3.6 million (indicating a de-
preciation rate around the 6 percent
mark). If the same sort of rate applied
to the remainder, it seems likely that
there is still some older plant at Kan-
dos with a net value in the books (after
depreciation) of about $2.3 million
which may face a period of only
moderate use.
,r pHE Kandos plant write-down fol-
lowed a relatively unpublicised
breakdown at the Kandos works which
put “a major portion of the plant out
of commission for a substantial part” of
the second half of 1965-66.
This breakdown had serious implica-
tions for the group last year, as cement
produced in Victoria had to be freighted
to meet N.S.W. orders an expensive
way to run a cement business. And
so far there has been no clear indica-
tion from the company that this situa-
tion has ended; this is serious, since
the higher costs involved in a situation
that had lasted for less than six months
were the main cause of the group's
11 percent profit fall and followed an
“improvement” in profit in the first half
of the year.
The disappointment at Kandos has
accentuated this group’s increasing con-
centration on Victoria; even the chair-
man, a former Kandos man, is giving
way to a Victorian. When the current
expenditure program is completed, the
Geelong works will have capacity of a
little over lm. tons, and Kandos about
one-quarter of this, although it is not
easy to state capacity categorically, be-
cause of old plant which could be
brought into production. Actual produc-
tion in 1964-65 was nearly lm. tons of
cement and lime and 125,000 tons of
coal, but corresponding figures were not
revealed for 1965-66.
A & K’s current capacity, not count-
ing Gippsland’s, is about the same size
as that of its major rival, Associated
Portland Cement (Blue Circle group)
which has Metropolitan Portland works
at Maldon (near JPicton) and Standard
Portland’s works at Charbon (near A
& K’s Kandos works), both in N.S.W,.
and Victorian Portland’s new works at
Waurn Ponds practically on A & K’s
front doorstep at Geelong, Victoria.
A small plant, producing cement by
an entirely different method of vertical
kiln production, Gippsland Cement’s
100,000-ton plant at Traralgon will have
capacity of 180,000 tons a year when
present expansion is completed in a
couple of years.
The Gippsland takeover will involve
A & K in the issue of 2,225,000 50c
shares. After the final call of 35c a
share, including 10c premium is made
in December on the one-for-five issue
of last March, A & K’s paid capital
will be $14.7m., leaving little room for
manoeuvre within the authorised capi-
tal of sl6m.
Expansion of the group’s productive
capacity has been financed by one-for-
three premium issues by Australian
Cement and Kandos Cement in March,
1962, when they were the twin public
companies owning equally the operating
company, Australian Portland Cement
Ltd. This raised almost s3m., a regis-
tered unsecured note issue by Australian
Portland at the same time raised an
equal sum, and a final s3m. comes from
the A & K premium issue this year.
Additional to this s9m., depreciation
and retained profits of the past four
years would have provided $15.7m.
internally.
Directors had authorised the com-
mitment of $5,209,380 for capital ex-
penditure as at May 31, 1966, of which
sl.6m. would derive from December’s
final call on the new shares.
The market would not take kindly
to yet another A & K share issue at
this stage, but shareholders were told
at the September annual meeting that
they would be advised as soon as a
decision was reached on whether any
further long-term financing is necessary.
This ' could depend on whether a de-
cision is reached on a dispute with the
Tax Commissioner this year.
The fresh investment in plant, the
unexplained 23 percent or $700,000
jump in stocks of cement, materials in
process, bags, gypsum, coal, spare parts,
and accessories (possibly due to the
larger transport time needed from Vic-
toria), necessitated greater reliance on
creditors and bank overdraft, up from
so.sm. to sl.lm. in the latest accounts.
A large query hanging over profits
available for appropriation, is the
matter of taxation. Claims lodged by the
company with the Tax Commissioner
regarding the 20 percent investment
allowance on new plant installed at
Geelong and Kandos since February 7,
1962, have not been settled yet. The
company does not reveal how much this
involves, except that it has now reached
substantial proportions.
JN February, 1962, a slom. program
of expansion at Geelong was
announced, covering a new rotary kiln,
number seven, and ancillary plant
which was installed late in 1963 as
stage one, and a conveyor belt trans-
porting limestone from the quarry to
Geelong works three miles away as
stage two. (This stage was deferred
and was still being executed in 1966.)
In September, 1964, expenditure of
$6.4m. was announced for number
eight rotary kiln and ancillary plant.
These should come into operation in
1966-67, and result in a more favorable
cost structure for cement production,
according to the chairman.
How much of this huge capital ex-
penditure is eligible for the investment
allowance, which is deducted from
assessable income, is uncertain. As the
Tax Commissioner sees it, the expendi-
ture must directly relate to the manu-
facture of goods. Mining and quarry-
ing plant is not allowed, so this would
rule out the continuous miner installed
in 1964-65 at No. 3 colliery at Kandos,
now sole source of coal for the Kandos
cement works. Nor does transport ex-
penditure qualify, so this probably
rules out all or most of the $841,500
spent on the limestone conveyor in
1965-66 (and also the limestone storage
costs of $411,190). (The conveyor was
being installed to replace a private
railway.)
Another item which will afford some
tax relief in the current year is the
$2.5m. write-down of plant at Kandos
in 1966. Whatever plant has been
scrapped which was not fully depreci-
ated will be allowable as a tax deduc-
tion.
May 31 1964 1965 l’J*
Working capital s’ooo 4119 4607 4448
Depreciation s’ooo 1181 1520
Taxation s’ooo 939 878 ,835
Net profit s’ooo 1999 2209 1984
Earning rate percent 17.7 19.5 lq*
Dividend rate percent 10 10 1,
Earning rate on total funds 7.0 7.5
Current ratio 1.1 14 1-J
Fixed assets $m 23.76 24 26 25.34
Dividend yield (a) 3.5 3.7 4.9
Price earnings ratio (a) 16.1 14.1 Jl.t
High price (b) 1.80 1.68 J’B2
Low price (b) 1.32 1.27 1 1 , 7
(a) End of September, month accounts presentee.
(b) Calendar years, 1966 to date.


BUSINESS EQUIPMENT HOLDINGS LIMITED
Annual General Meeting held at 408 Latrobe Street, Melbourne,
on Friday, September 30, 1966
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT
TO OUR
SHAREHOLDERS:
It is most pleasing in
our second year as a
Public Company to re-
port that the operating
subsidiaries of Busi-
ness Equipment Hold-
ings Ltd. again show
results unmatched at
any previous point in
their history. Records
were again established in sales and earnings.
The distribution of the wider range of equipment
enabled the company to make a greater penetra-
tion of the Australian market.
As shown elsewhere in this report the consolidated
profit before tax for the year ended 30th June,
1966, was $1,101,217, as compared with $697,016
for the year ended 1965, being an increase of
$404,201. After providing tax of $498,951, the con-
solidated net profit for the year ended 30th June,
1966, was $602,266, equal to 26% on Ordinary
Capital. Net profit is increased by $181,670,
equivalent to 43% over the consolidated net profit
of $420,596 for last year after providing $276,420
for tax. These most satisfactory results enabled
your directors to lift last year’s dividend of 11%
to 15%. The dividend payment amounts to $347,250,
whilst $250,000 has been transferred to the general
reserve.
Sales reached a record level of $9,393,084 against
$6,278,004 for the previous year, an increase of
$3,115,080, equivalent to 49.6%.
The sales and service network of the Company
has been further extended during the year by the
opening of new offices at Lidcombe, Tamworth,
and Coff’s Harbour in New South Wales; Morwell,
Victoria; Darwin, Northern Territory and Port
Moresby, Papua-New Guinea. This will permit a
wider spread of service to users of the Company’s
products throughout the Commonwealth and the
Territories. With the establishment of these
branches there are now thirty-seven sales and
service outlets.
As the result of this further expansion in our
activities the company has now more than 800
employees. With the introduction of decimal
currency last February, many major problems
arose and additional demands were made on the
company, but the response from executives and
staff was such that the company feels justifiably
proud of its contribution to the successful change-
over to decimal currency.
REVIEW OF OPERATING COMPANIES:
asoota business machines pty. ltd.
The Ascota range of 10-key multi-register account-
ln§ machines introduced as a direct result of the
switch to decimal currency has achieved market
acceptance and successful installations include
government departments, shipping and insurance
companies, chain stores and practically every
branch of industry. During the current year the
company plans to expand its activities and estab-
lish sales and service outlets in other States from
those in which it now operates.
BUSINESS EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD. Competition
was intensified, with the advent of decimal cur-
rency, but by developing the newer agencies,
energetic sales endeavour, and providing high
quality service, the Company has achieved very
satisfactory trading results.
The Regent Cash Register agency, which was
acquired during the year, will further increase the
range of the Company’s equipment. The Monroe
1201 Electronic Billing machine recently intro-
duced to Australia is already increasing the Com-
pany’s penetration into this market. The 1201 is
the latest electronic office machine released by the
vast Litton Industries Group of the U.S.A.
COMMERCIAL MACHINES PTY. LTD. Sales of
Odhner adding and bookkeeping machines greatly
increased during the year. Contributing factors
were the introduction to the Australian market
of a larger range of models, conversion to decimal
currency and the inauguration of an efficient ser-
vice network covering all country areas. Further
developments in the design of Odhner’s products
will ensure that this Company will maintain its
high proportion of the market during the forth-
coming year.
Currently the Europa Magnetic Dictaphone dicta-
ting and transcribing machine is being launched
and considerable success is anticipated with this
machine.
DECIMAL BUSINESS MACHINES PTY. LTD. This
company is converting the equipment sold by
Business Equipment Pty. Ltd., and Commercial
Machines Pty. Ltd., from sterling to decimal cur-
rency. Main plants are in Sydney and Melbourne
with sub-plants in Brisbane and Adelaide. As far
as the Group is concerned the changeover has pro-
ceeded very smoothly and our programme is
already considerably in advance of the targets laid
down by the Decimal Currency Board. At the same
time, despite the demands made on our technical
staff, we are also pleased to say that it has been
possible to maintain the high standard of service
given by the Group.
CURRENT TRADING
All operating companies commenced this year’s
trading at a favourable level, and they should
enjoy a sound trading period in the year ahead,
provided the general economic conditions remain
stable. However, costs will rise considerably as the
result of basic wage and other increases. This is a
problem common to all industries and the Direc-
tors are aware of the need to watch this matter
very closely.
W. J. KILPATRICK,
CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS.


■X.
Don’t pour profits
down the
(effluents) drain
Let Gilbarco water engineer specialists show you how to solve
all your water treatment problems.
Gilbarco will re-adjust your profit picture by installing
effluents treatment and water reclarification systems
designed to give you the smallest, most efficient units
for your needs. And at the lowest installation, operating
and maintenance cost.
In addition, Gilbarco systems enable you to meet all
requirements and regulations of applicable Authorities
regarding disposal of trade wastes. And allow you to
very profitably recover valuable minerals and chemicals
from effluent waste —as well as giving you great savings
by permitting the re-use of treated water where volume
usage is a costly item. In fact, it can be safely said that
in many cases a Gilbarco installation pays for itself in
a very short time, and, when capital cost is recovered,
begins to add immeasurably to your overall profit
picture.
The complete Gilbarco Water Treat-
ments Service is available to you—for
preliminary discussions on your prob-
lems—through to final installation and
operational maintenance service. A
simple telephone call to your nearest
Gilbarco office will bring prompt and
helpful assistance.
Two systems from the Gilbarco range are:
The W.E.L. 3- Stage Effluent Process: An automatic pro-
cess in which flocculating chemicals are added to the
effluent under controlled pH conditions before sub-
sequent neutralising and the addition of powerful
sedimentation agents.
This process is highly suitable for any of the following:
• Removal of Toxic Contaminants • Neutralisation •
Settling and, if necessary, recovery of Suspended Solids
• Recirculation of water to the process. This is the
smallest treatment unit available. It is the easiest and
lowest cost to install, operate and maintain. Is fully
or semi-automatic. Gives the fastest treatment. And
conforms to the most stringent specifications of
applicable Local Authorities.
The Lubeck Process: This is an accelerated activated
sludge process which utilises the funda-
mental principles of activated sludge
treatment at a high efficiency—thereby
providing maximum loading at minimum
capital cost. The Lubeck Process gives
these big advantages: • Biological Puri-
fication of effluents with much smaller
sized plants • High Efficiency • Low
First Cost • Low Power Consumption •
Low Maintenance Cost. And the Lubeck
Process conforms to the most stringent
specifications of applicable Local
Authorities.
Water Engineering Division—Gilbarco (Aust.) Ltd.
Specialists in the treatment of all effluents.
Sydney 519-1888 • Newcastle 57-0381 • Melbourne 44-0581 • Brisbane 5-3121 • Adelaide 45-1141 • Perth 65-1211 • Hobart B-4070 • Wellington 18-141.
GP:P444


INVEST NOW IN THIS NEW ISSUE
FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Providing finance facilities for short term
mortgages together with Consumer,
Industrial and Commercial Credit.
DEBENTURE
STOCKm
PER ANNUM FOR
5 CIO YEARS
0
BENEFICIAL
2*at\2
Applications will proceed only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus obtainable from
STOCK EXCHANGE MEMBERS
throughout Australia
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia, all branches
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
in New South Wales and A C T.
S.A. FARMERS' CO-OP. UNION LTD.
In South Australia,
or the Underwriters
lAN POTTER ft CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
GAVIN F. GARDNER ft CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
BENEFICIAL BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Sydney 29 5244 Melbourne 62 1432
Brisbane 31 1861 Adelaide 51 6661 Perth 21 6273
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Th Appeal of pioneer
DURING 1965, the price of Pioneer
Concrete’s shares fell as low as
$1.26 and during 1963 they were
as low as $l.lO, but one normally ex-
pects to find that they are selling
around $1.50 or perhaps even higher.
Last week they had fallen as low as
$1,29, which is very close to the low
point for the last two years and, while
we have over a month to wait for
the preliminary announcement of the
1965/6 profit, there is no reason to be-
lieve that it will be down on last year.
Looking at the group today with assets
in excess of $2B million and activities
spreading to all Australian States except
Tasmania, to Hong Kong, to Israel, to
Italy, to Malaysia, and to the United
Kingdom, it is difficult to believe that
the business was founded less than
20 years ago by the present Manag-
ing Director, Mr. T. V. Antico, as a
building sub-contractor for the laying
of concrete. It is all the more surprising
since it would appear that the enter-
prise was built up in the face of extreme
competition from the other two major
companies, Ready Mixed Concrete and
Blue Metal Industries. Pioneer Con-
crete did not become a listed public
company until the second half of 1959,
and at that time the issued ordinary
capital was only $320,000. Today the
issued ordinary capital is more than
ten times this figure.
In the 1960 year, a number of com-
panies were acquired. Only five were
pre-mixed concrete companies. Four
were engaged in mosaic work and six
were quarrying and sand and gravel
companies. The pattern was being set
even at this early stage for a fully
integrated group.
A pre-mixed concrete company was
established in Hong Kong in Decem-
ber, 1961, and 12 months later activi-
ties were extended to Israel and
to the United Kingdom. The entry
into the United Kingdom seems to have
been facilitated by Pioneer Concrete’s
earlier association in Australia with the
Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation group
through Rio-Pioneer Gravel Pty. Ltd.,
a company in which Pioneer Concrete
bad an equal interest with CRA from
March, 1962, until July, 1964. The entry
into Italy was made in September, 1964,
and into Malayia two months later in
November, 1964.
It is likely that a major development
bit Pioneer Concrete was the acquisi-
tion of CRA’s 75 percent interest in
Fitzpatrick Industries in July, 1964.
Until this time, Pioneer Concrete did
not own its major raw material supplies
in the Sydney area, and this particular
deal gave the group control of substan-
tial supplies of this raw material, thereby
making it independent of the two other
major producers. Referring to this
Requisition in his address to share-
holders at the last annual general
meeting, the chairman said . . we
now rank as one of the largest quarry-
masters in the country with a number
of the best-equipped quarries in the
industry.”
The 1964/5 year seems to have been
one of consolidation, but in the interim
report for the 1965/6 year it was
announced that Pioneer Concrete was
extending its interests in the hot-mix
bitumen business. Agreement had been
reached with the Shell Company of
Australia to form a joint company “for
the further development of the interests
of both companies in the industry.”
The interim report also said that the
overseas subsidiaries were “showing a
level of profitability which has fully
justified the policy decision made some
time ago that the group activities be
expended into overseas countries.” The
Press reported Mr. Antico as saying in
November, 1965 (prior to the publica-
tion of the annual report for the year
to June 30, 1965), that between 25
percent and 30 percent of the group’s
pre-tax profit came from the overseas
subsidiaries. It appears that during
1964/5 the results from Italy were par-
ticularly gratifying and plans were
afoot to increase the number of plants
in that country from four to ten. How-
ever, Hong Kong seems to have had a
poor year (relatively) in 1964/5, while
the Malayan subsidiary had not
achieved the development anticipated.
So the concrete-laying sufi-contractor
has grown to a group which is fully
competitive with the two other major
quarrymasters in New South Wales and
in some States would almost certainly
have a greater share of the pre-mixed
concrete market than any of its com-
petitors. In addition, it has apparently
a very active and profitable overseas
division. In view of the interim report
it would not be unreasonable to assume
that profits from overseas increased in
1965/6, and this would mean that about
a third of the group business was run-


Olympic
CONSOLIDATED
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
ISSUE OF
$8,000,000
UNSECURED NOTES
AT PAR
7 n
SEVEN
YEARS
TWELVE
YEARS
Application for the unsecured notes accepted only on the form
referred to in and attached to the printed prospectus which is
available from:
Any office of the underwriters, J. B. Were & Son
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
The company’s note registrars, Fell & Starkey,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
or 66 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Or any branch in Australia of
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited
ISSUE OPENS ON MONDAY,
10th OCTOBER, 1966
k 423 a
ning at a higher level than in 1964/5
One can only guess at this stage of the
year about the likely trends i n
profitability of the other two-thirds of
the business which arises in Australia
Although the company has made
numerous issues of ordinary shares to
other than existing shareholders to
acquire other companies and to finance
the development of various activities
the shareholders have not been over-
looked. In the past six years there have
been three issues to shareholders on
favorable terms. A one-for-five issue
was made at par in July, 1961, then
another one-for-five at par was made
in October, 1963. The last issue, one-
for-four in May, 1964, was not so
favorable, as the issue price was $1.25
instead of $0.50. The dividend rate has
been maintained at 6.25 cents per share,
so after adjusting for the bonus content
of these new issues the dividends per
share have increased as follows:
Year to 30th June 1961 19 6 2 19 63 1 964 1965
Cents per share 4 6 5.1 5 2 6 1 625
Index 1961=100 100 111 114 134 136
If earnings per share are also
adjusted for the bonus content of new
issues and based on the pre-tax profits
by deducting tax at full rates from this
figure, a marked decline in earnings per
share can be noted from 1959 until
1962. However, a very strong upward
movement can be seen from this point:
Year to 30th
June 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Cents per
share 9.4 8.8 8.1 7.0 8.5 11.5 12.7
Index
1961=100 116 108 100 86 105 142 156
It is noticeable that the upward trend
seems to have commenced shortly after
the overseas division was formed.
Issued capital was increased by
about 12 percent yearly in 1965/6 by
two private placements —the second
and largest was made at $1.22 per share
—so pre-tax profits will need to
increase by this amount just to main-
tain the 1964/5 earning rate. Pioneer
Concrete’s performance in the past five
years suggests that the company will
have no difficulty in doing this.
An opportunity to purchase this stock
just over ten times earnings is unlikely
to recur, for the last occasion when the
stock sold at such a low earnings mul-
tiple was in late 1960. Despite the low
placement price of 12 months ago I
would think the shares are attractive
up to $1.40.
PIONEER CONCRETE SERVICES LIMITED
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES s’ooo
Current Assets 3428 4444 5920 7650 11840
Current Liabilities 2944 5512 6228 7588 10180
Net Working Cap'l 494 (1068) (308) 62 1660
Land & Buildings 3084 3288 3508 4170 5626
Plant, etc. 2414 3830 4550 6628 11014
Investments 142 886 1100 1488 22
Intangibles 96 284 476 $4
Total Capital 6134 7032 9134 12824 18868
Represented by: , Q -i R
Loan Capital 664 50 2 894 1532 283
Long term
provisions 56 88 138 20
Minority Interests 20 202 416 12'
Convertible Notes 78 _ nQ <
Ordinary Capital 2522 3310 3862 5192 70W
Reserves 2870 3144 4088 5546 7452
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES s’ooo
Interest on Loans 22 16 51 96 272
Depreciation 282 446 612 908 155
Tax provided 324 312 456 558
Earnings 55 8 532 73 6 1020 1574
Ordinary Dividends 334 418 468 544 "i;
Surplus 224 114 268 476 '62
Earning Rate % 22.2 17.2 20.2 23.5 25. £
Dividend Rate % 12.5 12.5 12.5 12.5 14.3
Dividend Yield % 3.8 3.2 4.4 3J5 4_3
High Price $ . 1.88 2.45 1.72 1.80 1
Low Price $ 1.38 1.44 1.10 1.50 1-2°


It’s a pleasure to
do business when you
fly Ansett-ANA
drive Avis Rent A Car
W-- s?«s£ ' m
wmmmm
I
ii
"x
:SS*KS
VNVU3SNV
AVIS
RENTA CAR
The combination
that’s miles ahead for value.
You have more time for business and it’s a pleasure to do it when you jet there in
Ansett-ANA 727 Fan Jet luxury and drive a sparkling new AVIS Falcon or other
fine car. AVIS operates Australia’s finest fleet of drive-yourself cars and they are
PROPERLY insured too. Book your AVIS Rent A Car when you book your
flight —it will be waiting at the airport. Decide now to fly there Ansett-ANA
and drive an Avis Rent A Car. It’s the refreshing, economical way to do business.
2299/83/66
MAN ON THE LAND
Toward Farmer Unity
A CRITIC has accused us of being
both facetious and contradictory
in remarks about farmer unity
(Bulletin, Sept. 17). To the first
charge we plead guilty. There probably
are farmers who would regard this as a
subject in which there is no place for
the light touch.
To the second charge we plead not
guilty. The likelihood of farmer unity
coming about, through pressures which
are only just beginning to be discern-
ible, is inseparable from changes taking
place in farming itself.
We said that unity may not neces-
sarily be an ideal thing in itself, but
that it would gradually be identified
with a purpose which, until now, it has
lacked. It would be based more broadly
and would differ most in that regional,
rather than industry, aspirations would
play a bigger part. This may seem
contradictory, but it is not.
Up till now it has always been said,
and it is perfectly true, that a cane-
grower in Queensland has nothing in
common with a dairy farmer in Vic-
toria and that unity of purpose is, there-
fore, impossible. Until now diversifica-
tion of farming in Australia has been
relatively unsophisticated. We have had
sheep farmers, wheat-sheep farmers,
dairy farmers, horticultural farmers
(orchardists, grape growers, vegetable
growers, etc.), and poultry farmers.
Beef cattle have usually been run in
conjunction with sheep and pigs with
dairying.
radical changes are taking
place with amazing rapidity. There
are farmers who do not quite know what
sort they are and who are more con-
cerned with being simply good farmers.
Along the Murray, in some places,
sheep are being run in conjunction with
horticulture. In southern Victoria sheep
are being run in conjunction with the
growing of peas and tomatoes. In
Queensland canegrowing and cattle
are seen as a useful combination in
some areas. In the past the Queensland
canegrower not only had little in com-
mon with the Victorian dairy farmer
but even less in common with the
Queensland beef raiser.
Divisions, based on what a man did,
ran deep. They still exist, of course.
But they are beginning to disappear.
The sheep farmer, the dairy farmer,
the poultry farmer, and orchardist used
to be quite different types. They had
widely different standards, behaviour,
fnd, naturally, incomes. (Perhaps this
is saying the same thing.) The sons of
dairy farmers did not go to the same
schools as the sons of sheep farmers.
These divisions could be listed almost
mdefinitely, but the natural outcome
w as that farmer organisations reflected
them. Of course, they still do. This we
do not deny.
But the impact of agricultural econo-
mics, and whole farm planning, will
hasten their disappearance. The
sociological need for separate organisa-
tions will disappear also. In the past
farmers followed a particular line of
activity for no particular reason except
that they were brought up to do it.
Properties continued in sheep, or wheat,
or dairying, and so on, simply because
this had been the activity for genera-
tions. No one questioned it . . . even
when it was demonstrably clear that
it did not pay. In the past, except
where acreage was unlimited, it was
pretty much guesswork as to whether
something would pay or not.
But now it is becoming possible to


You
can Just
take off
. . . to anywhere you like with BOAC. We fly more places
more often than any other airline. 70 cities in 53 countries
on 6 continents. Never a dull moment when you’re jetting
there with BOAC. Because BOAC cabin service reflects part
of the England of the sixties. With English hospitality that
means good food and drink, the service and comfort to make
them both more enjoyable and a delightfully relaxed informal
atmosphere. BOAC has the best planes, too. VClO’s with
their four rear-mounted engines that leave engine noise behind
you forever. And Rolls Royce 707’s that are smooth flying
and blissfully quiet. You can just take off to anywhere
with BOAC. But it’s not an ultimatum. It’s an invitation.
Check for flight information with your BOAC Travel Agent,
BOAC, or BOAC’s General Sales Agent, Qantas.
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
British Overseas Airways Corporation in association with Air India, Air New
Zealand and Qantas.
BOAC: Pl6l (b)
ascertain in advance, through whole
farm planning, the best economic use
of land. It is not, as yet, a perfected
science and never may be quite that
No agricultural economist can predict
accurately what world markets are
going to do. If he could he would do
the sensible thing and set himself up
in an office in Zurich or somewhere
and become a millionaire. But he is
getting to a position where he can
quite accurately, answer the kind of
questions which have made many a
farmer miserable.
Should he breed or buy, should he
grow oats or wheat, should he conserve
hay, silage, or nothing, should he take
sheep out of a paddock and put in peas
on contract, should he disperse the
milking herd, borrow to increase his
holding, and go in for beef. There are
thousands of questions in this category.
Diversification today is not the wheel-
barrow and horse plough variety. The
farmer may, or may not, change his
own way of life dramatically. He may
continue, himself, to do what he knows
best. The sheep may remain his own
personal concern where a crop, for
example, may be raised by a lessee.
This is not share-cropping or even
share-farming necessarily. One of the
biggest growers of cabbages in Aus-
tralia, we are told, owns not one acre
of land. He has hundreds of acres on
lease. He never even handles a cabbage
himself. He is a specialist farmer tech-
nician running a very big operation.
ir pHE impact of this kind of operation
will do two things. It will bring down
the barriers between farmers themselves
in the sense that they will see them-
selves not as sheep farmers, or cabbage
growers, or pig farmers, or what have
you, but as owner-managers. It will
also make them, as owner-managers,
aware of trends which contain dangers
for them personally. The dangers prim
cipally appear to be the marriage of
big Government and big business, cor-
poration farming, and American take-
over. These may be unfortunate but
they appear unavoidable.
A powerful reminder that unity is
not yet achieved is the current trouble
in the egg industry. Big government,
and big business, seems determined to
put through a piece of legislation which
is totally undemocratic and which
could permit search of farm, and farm-
house, without the consent of the owner
or even his presence. Not one farmer
organisation, as far as we know, is
concerned with this other than the
group of poultry farmers resisting it.
“Not our problem,” an attitude we have
encountered many times, still permeates
the organisations. It will be recognised,
eventually, that things like this are the
problem of every primary producer.
What happens to one can happen to
others.
Corporation farming could be a good
thing for farmers or it could be bad.
No one knows enough about it yet. But
if it continues unchecked unity will be
automatic, because all farmers will be


3H
mm
m
From the toy tanker
to the real thing...
m
r
r
and both made of plastic!
Plastic toys are no novelty,
but as for plastic tankers . .
Australia has just got its first.
This 3500 gallon tanker, now
in regular use with the Shell
fleet, was made of polyester
resin with the aid of Epikote
resins manufactured by Shell.
What will they think of next?
The possibilities for plastics
are unlimited —and Shell are
playing a major part in this
changing world. And this is
true not only of plastics. In
industry land agriculture, too,
there are specialised Shell
Chemicals for practically
everything—backed by Shell’s
international know-how and
experience to help you solve
your problems.
The list below gives you
an idea of the wide range of
Shell Chemicals available.
Whatever your manufactur-
ing interests —with the factory,
farm, or family—Shell Chemi-
cal can make things better for
you. Just ask Shell Chemical in
your State.
□ Plastics □ Resins □ Synthetic Rubbers
□ Hydrocarbon Solvents □ Chemical Solvents □ Textile Chemicals
□ Polyurethane Chemicals □ General Chemicals & Intermediates
□ Detergents □ Fungicides □ Insecticides
□ Soil Fumigants □ Weedkillers
Phone: Melbourne, 60 1634; Sydney, 29 1226; Brisbane
31 2795; Perth, 21 8631; Adelaide 51 4125; or write to
Shell Chemical (Australia) Pty.Ltd. in your State.
Shell Chemicals
employees, anyway. It has a long way
t 0 go, however, before that stage is
re ached. However, there are people,
ve ry intelligent people, too, who believe
that the day of the family-unit farm is
drawing to an end. The individual far-
mer so the argument goes, will never
have enough technical know-how, or
capital, to make the best economic use
of land.
Personally, the idea of the family-
unit farm going seems horrible and
nagic. But then we must concede that,
as there are greater humorists in the
world than ourselves, there may also be
some people more intelligent. At any
rate, recognition of the threat to family-
unit farming must, rather soon now.
become a powerful influence in unity
discussions.
Initially this threat is always more
apparent regionally. Corporation farm-
ing enterprises like to descend on a
particular region and buy up tracts of
country, i.e., North Queensland. All
farmers, eventually, will feel its influ-
ence.
rpHE U.S. takeover is probably no
more apparent in farming than in
everything else. No one seems to know
where it will end. Mr. Calwell says we
will end up American States. Sir Wil-
liam Gunn says it is in the national
interest. It is not only in farmland that
the American influence is being felt.
Peas, beans, potatoes, cheese, and meat
processing are becoming outposts of the
dollar empire.
If we do not know where all this will
end the Americans themselves are just
as confused. They can cope with the
problems of getting to the moon, but
admit doubts as to their ability to cope
with problems of housing, unemploy-
ment, education, racial segregation,
population shift, air and water pollu-
tion, divorce and juvenile delinquency,
and many other matters.
The point that seems pertinent in
discussing American takeovers of Aus-
tralian farming is that too often they
appear to get in far too cheaply and
with more help from the Federal
Government (the Australian taxpayer)
than they need.
The urban taxpayer may be the big-
gest factor in bringing about farmer
unity. Middle-class suburbia, which is
where a big slice of the population is,
will not carry the major burden of taxa-
tion forever.
Farmers, and farmer organisations,
should take heed of the recent Bureau
°f Agricultural Economics survey which
puts their incomes, with all their
troubles, higher than their counterparts
ln most other countries, and should also
heed the recent Institute of Public
Affairs review which charged that the
Present income tax scale was falling too
heavily on the middle income brackets.
This taxation matter is wrapped up
With Federal/State financing, and far-
mers would be unwise to regard this
as just something else which is “not
OUr problem.” Some, already, do hot,


wm s
m*
m
ma
&■$
*3r
ffjr
£** ■
4» F f ****///**t? v ">^ v
& **
.,
m
m/p.
mt
m
'R<('P 3 -+A a -Q x ) Qar&a.
2.A
That’s just one of the many formulas to solve
grinding wheel problems but you don’t need to
learn it! Our Sales Engineers can solveany grinding
wheel problem you may have.
One of our distributors, or Sales Engineers, is
immediately available to call at your plant and give
you free, on-the-spot advice on any grinding or
abrasive machining problem you may have. Just
send this advertisement back to us on your letter-
head . . . we’ll do the rest!
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
Australian Abrasives Pty. Ltd. 302 Parramatta Rd., Auburn, N.S.W. 648 2361
and the influence of these thinking men
will grow and will bring about a form
of farmer unity which will be unlike
anything we know today and which
we hope, will really be in the national
interest. We do not agree with those
people who say the national interest
cannot be defined.
The national interest, surely, j s
democracy.
AGRISEARCH
Watching The
Ants Go By
Ant-watching may not be as
fascinating as bird-watching, but
it may be more rewarding
especially in these days of aerial agri-
culture. Out at Rockley, on the central
tablelands of New South Wales, Mr.
M. H. Campbell, of the State’s De-
partment of Agriculture, found two
species of ants industriously collecting
pasture seeds that had been broadcast
on unploughed land. He has estimated
from his observations that a large pro-
portion of a normal sowing of 101 b.
per acre could be lost in this way. By
treating the seed with the insecticide
dieldrin before broadcasting he was
able to increase the number of estab-
lished seedlings by up to fivefold.
Mr. Campbell experimented with a
pasture mixture consisting of three
clovers (red, white, and sub) and three
perennial grasses (rye, cocksfoot, and
phalaris). At 101 b. per acre this mix-
ture would give approximately 2.5 mil-
lion seeds. On one occasion he watched
the entrance to one colony of ants for
130 minutes and in that time counted
455 seeds of the broadcast mixture pass
down into the nest. The number of
nests in the area averaged between two
and three every ten square yards. Any-
one with patience enough can work
out the arithmetic for himself, but at
this rate it would seem that the ants
would not need much time to polish
off the lot.
»J*HE longer the period between sowing
and germination the more seed is
taken. For example, after a May seeding
almost three weeks passed before
enough rain fell to start germination,
but only three days after a June seed-
ing. Seedling establishment was very
much poorer on the earlier sown plot.
Late sowing by air might, therefore, be
an advantage in some districts.
Actually, the ants stop collecting the
seed as soon as it swells prior to ger-
mination. Less moisture is needed to
cause clover seeds to swell than grass
seeds. Hence, the ants can usually con-
tinue collecting the grass seeds f° r
longer. Perhaps on this account pasture
seed mixtures for the ant-active areas
should contain a higher proportion of
grass species. Also, of the six pasture
seeds studied, sub-clover was the species
taken least often by the ants. Lime-


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: RONALD EDWARD WRIGHT
late of Broken Hill in the State of
New South Wales, TAKE NOTICE that
Doreen Elizabeth Wright has filed a
Petition No. 993 of 1966 for divorce
on the ground of desertion and seeks
orders for custody, maintenance and
costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
seventh day of November, 1966, and
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. Marshall Marks
Dezarnaulds & Jones, Solicitors, Cul-
wulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, City, Agents for Messrs. John
R. Edwards, Brown & Brown, Solicitors,
281 Argent Street, Broken Hill, New
South Wales. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: PATRICK CECIL DWYER, late
of Armidale. TAKE NOTICE that
RUTH LILLIAN DWYER has filed
Petition No. 2477 of 1966, for Divorce
on the ground of desertion and seeks
orders for custody, maintenance and
costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
eighth day of November. 1966. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Gregg Milne & Co.,
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
The Bulletin Index for 1965 is now
being printed. Copies may be
ordered for $2.35, including postage,
from the Australian Consolidated
Press Library, 54 Park Street, Sydney,
or Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: KEITH LESLEY SCOTT late jof
11 Macquarie Street, Greenacre, TAKE
NOTICE that SHIRLEY SCOTT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1061
of 1966 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, King Street, Sydney,
on or before the 7th day of November,
1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney, the city Agents for C.
A. MITCHELMORE & CO., 38 Railway
Parade, Burwood. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: WILLIAM FREDERICK JOHN
MITCHELL TAKE NOTICE that
LAUREL AGNES MITCHELL has filed
a Petition No. 1858 of 1968 for Divorce
on the ground of adultery notwith-
standing the facts and circumstances
set out in a discretion statement filed
herein and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance and costs. If you wish
to defend you may file an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or be-
fore the seventh day of November, 1966.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Messrs. C. R. Potts
& Co., Solicitors, 63 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SEND A DONATION TO
AUSTRALIAN FORCES
OVERSEAS FUND
BOX 175, P. 0., DARLINGHURST, N.S.W.
eileted seed proved to be scarcely less
attractive to the ants than unpelleted
see d. The reason for this was that a
frost or even slight moisture quickly
washed the coating off.
The dieldrin was applied to the seed
a t the rate of one pound of the active
ingredient to 1001 b. of seed. The ants
soon found that this seed was toxic
and stopped collecting it within one or
two hours. Depending on the size of
the nest, from 10 to 80 seeds were suffi-
cient to inactivate the nest. Mr. Camp-
bell’s studies showed that some of the
nests were completely wiped out and
that the others almost invariably re-
mained quiescent for about a month.
By this time most seed in most seasons
would have germinated.
One possible snag about using diel-
drin is that it could also kill the
nitrogen-fixing bacteria. However, pre-
liminary investigation of this point by
the Department suggests that the risk,
if any, is small. Mr. Campbell’s ant-
watching clearly demanded commend-
able diligence and perseverance. With
much less effort anyone contemplating
aerial sowing could decide for himself
whether dieldrin treatment of the seed
would be a worthwhile precaution. All
he need do is appraise the ant popula-
tion in his area in the light of Mr.
Campbell’s experience, then scatter a
handful of seed and wait around for
an hour or so to see what happens.
The thieving ants at Rockley belonged
to the species Pheidole megacephala,
which is a small brown ant, and
Pheidole bos-Forel, which is a larger
black ant. The tiny entrances to their
nests can be found readily enough by
trailing seed-toting ants.
The Bulletin Crossword
NUMBER 919
ACROSS
1. Advice to those preparing food for the tooth-
less forum of a clerical worker. (6)
4. It’s nothing to rue the plutocratic bird. (7)
10. On a sloop, I wrecked a musical rendering.
l s ’ 4 )
11. Pungent help about credit. (5)
12. Provides nexus grounds for Devlin, Crampton,
Nagel, etc. (5)
13. Pacific recommendation from
Thackeray. (9)
14. Province of the bowling sailor
against whom I must get a
duck. (7)
17. Exploring the interior. (7)
19. A pianissimo praise to register
approval. (7)
20. Praise for the hostess deserted
by a Hardy heroine and Miss
Christie. (7)
21. One Girl Friday is able to be
inappropriate for the dark
continent. (2-7)
22. In favor of some affirmative
incursion into enemy territory.
(5)
24. Water in which the canoe is
wrecked. (5)
25. Movie tune composed to be
exciting no feelings. (9)
26. Did St. Patrick miss this one
slander? (7)
27. It’s the mob at large, if the
main bulk of the mountains.
(6)
DOWN
1. Growth for the medication love
between parents. (9)
2. Become informed of pasture on
service. (5)
3. Curiously solid devotion is
offered to them. (5)
5. When cattle are traded in on
sheep, and pigs for fowls.
(5, 9)
6. Harvest fruit turns up again.
(9)
7. Some blooming country in
automotive production. (9)
8. Prison cleans up the vermouth
for a start. (8, 6)
9. Run the engine without any
throttling that is to be seen
about 550. (4) *
15. To participants in the game
upper strata. (3-6)
16. New order sought in the back
mountains. (9)
18. Sauce with the meat? (5, 4)
21. Unbusinesslike coupon? (4)
22. If upset over a girl. (5)
23. Claude falls from the skies. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 918


INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
CREDIT
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
NEW ISSUE
DEBENTURE STOCK
INTEREST UP TO
4 /o
Applications may proceed only on the
form attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus, which is obtainable from:
Any branch of
lAN POTTER & CO.
Any member of
A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
Any branch of
IHCC OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE A.N.Z. BANK LTD.
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
m
H1855D/12
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Singing the Blues Again
THOSE market blues that I mentioned last week have shown no sign of drifting
away. I’m not the only one surprised (and disappointed) with the apathetic
behaviour of the market. I’m also not the only one who is hopeful of some
permanent improvement in due course.
One market commentator reckons
that all you need is blood and guts and
you’ll be buying at the lowest point
since the depression. The chairman of
Australian United Investment Ltd., Mr.
R. J. McArthur, used a slightly different
tack in giving his opinion on the pros-
pects of the market. He stated that,
historically, interest in mining securities
had usually preceded a widening
activity of industrials. I’m not quite
sure how he could explain this rather
quaint relationship. However, if this
has proved to be a consistent pattern
in the past I’m prepared to accept it.
There’s such a welter of stocks that
should be good buying and yet continue
to show little room for optimism in
their price behaviour. Take Tooheys.
After a lower profit in the first half of
the year the company managed to
achieve a slight profit increase for the
full year. No mean feat in a year of
drought for a brewery which is heavily
dependent on country sales. Result: A
temporary improvement in the share
price to $1.07, followed by a reaction
taking the shares down under $1 again!
Then there’s Pye. With the depressed
conditions in the automatic and appli-
ance business some profit fall in the
year to March 31 was only to be ex-
pected. Since then Pye has introduced
a new marketing system for its appli-
ances. The response has been so gratify-
ing that the profits can now be expected
to rise strongly again. Unperturbed by
this development, the shares are at their
lowest level for several years and there
is still very little interest in them.
Closer to home as far as the portfolio
is concerned is Macquarie Broadcasting
shares. These have already once been
in the portfolio this year, and on that
occasion acquitted themselves very well
Macquarie Broadcasting has recently
announced a -40 percent increase in
profits. If this was good news the
market apparently didn’t think so as
the shares immediately weakened from
$1.25 to $l.lO. Just as well the company
didn’t announce a 100 percent increase
in profits.
The earning rate now moves up to
a respectable 17.6 percent. What’s more
profits could be a little on the con-
servative side. Profits, including a
minority interest, amounted to $457,000
which was not so much more than the
tax provision of $376,000. Once the
industrial market sorts itself out this
should be one share to respond to logic.
My order was for 400 shares at $1.12.
JTORTUNATELY, this apathy has not
yet applied to the mining market.
Provided you can pick the right metal
it doesn’t much matter about the com-
pany. Lead, zinc, copper, and tin have
come and gone. Beach sands are still
with us. Nickel is coming into favor
quite dramatically. So also will be
uranium.
I’ve already managed to get into
MKU well above the present price!
However, this seems to have been more
an error of timing rather than picking
the wrong stock. This time I’ve selected
the United Uranium contributing
shares. Like MKU, United Uranium
made substantial profits in the early
’sixties in selling uranium to the'
United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Authority. Since 1964 the mine has been
shut down awaiting the revival in world
demand for uranium. Lor low-cost pro-
ducers like United Uranium this could
well happen within the next two years.
As a backstop, the company is also
developing interests in silver, lead, and
zinc.
L. J. Hooker at 39c was the only
sale this week. A pleasing profit of $54
was the result.
Transactions this week were:
SOLD
1000 L. J. Hooker, 39c, $382.
BOUGHT
1000 United Uranium ctg, 28c, $287.
400 Macquarie Broadcasting, $1.12,
$459.
Still managing to keep in credit with
the final balance being $lB7.
The portfolio now consists of:
Cost
No. of Name of Date per
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 2.90
1000 AMI 14/6/66 .46 -45
1000 Emperor Gold 12/7/66 .55
600 Peko WaMsend 19/7/66 2.40 2.34
500 Steel Mills 9/8/66 .72
200 Mt. Isa 9/8/66 4.70 4.40
400 GMK 10/8/66 1.20 I-"
200 Borg Warner 15/8/66 1.70 l°u
200 MKU 17/8/66 3.00 Z-'“
1000 Planet 24/8/66 .40 ■»
500 Petersville 30/8/66 .59
500 Egl.o 13/9/66 .87
500 Whale Ind. 19/9/66 .43
400 Assoc. Sec. Rts. 21/9/66 .39
400 Macquarie Broad'ing 26/9/66 1.12
1000 United Uranium ctg. 27/9/66 .28


* ■
SPACE SAVER
DATA PROTECTOR
r
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier)
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (Austraiia) Pty. Ltd,
Head Office: 2 Wentworth Ave„ Dariinghurst, N.S.W.
Please have one of your representatives contact
me to further explain how 3M microfilm could
help solve my company’s filing problems.
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS
• •
• i
l
i P* rawroFaraßß
look TO 3M for imagination in image making
Ms a 3M Microfilm System
SPACE SAVER: By reducing your records into microfilm
cartridges you actually save 96% of present filing space.
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier): Any one document
stored in 3M cartridges can be retrieved and viewed
within 20 seconds. Another 4 seconds and you can have
a full size dry copy ready for use.
DATA PROTECTOR: Store a duplicate microfilm file off
the premises for protection against fire, damage, theft.
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS: Discover how
easily and economically you can win the paper work
battle by using the 3M microfilm cartridge system. Send
the coupon today and 3M will contact you.
“PROFIT-AS-YOU-LEASE PLAN”: Operated through Mer-
cantile Credits Ltd. Under this plan your company can be
equipped with 3M Microfilm without investing a penny.
3m
MICROFILM WORKSHOP:
Sydney 43-0455, Melbourne 61-3841,
Brisbane 5-4131, Adelaide 51-5971, Perth 28-4651,
Hobart 3-3104, Canberra 4-0791, Auckland 295-109
3M9/3195/66


Kalcolor aluminium is available through Comalco
and the sole licensed processor,
Aluminium Anodisers Pty. Limited.
g comalcoMdJ),m sim mm
SHAPING TODAY’S LIVING WITH ALUMINIUM
*Licensed trademark of Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation
On the face of it •••
Kalcolor* gives a superb finish to buildings
such as the Reserve Bank, Adelaide. But
architects know that there is more to this
revolutionary but well-tried process than pure
aesthetics. As well as being an anodic colour
system it provides extra resistance to abrasion
and corrosion. And Kalcolor aluminium,
introduced to Australia by Comalco, is not only
light-fast but comprises a striking new range of
architectural colours:
Gold, Light Bronze, Bronze, Statuary Bronze,
Grey, Black.
For the Reserve Bank, Adelaide, Perry Metal
Window Company fabricated both bronze and
light bronze Kalcolor aluminium for windows,
street frontage and entrance areas, external
sunscreen and lift lobby screens.
If it’s a question of architectural aluminium
and Kalcolor in particular call upon the
practical experience of Comalco.
<' '*
w
mm#
p» .
!i f .
iilll
I 11 1
m
4
v
ea
m
31/
m
mi
