

The Bulletin
AUSSIE RULES —WHO CARES?
JUNE 1 1, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
ALLEN FAIRHALL, Minister for Defence
- ; ■ ...
n mmm m mw, ■ M "an "
fIH *™ aB JH MB üBl jM| gBIMB BB .
Hw nl m, MWk m
glim :.||M ;$Sf fsPSli ill£l3S
g|||j (mm ps& s«§£ j§& SBBSjA Ijjpfel i-fOp
.]■,■ fflk m ma mi Ip Si js9| ns jSj§
«& |§|| Bp MW
■HI Wtt m ■ m fiJK In B
MeS* hesSSel 'Wbs&S?' ’fftffifrffi* 'SW -jX'r, -i
pg»fi #§*s ÜBS ftjßg§&! i ).-»;^*{J
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore s{, Malaysia $1


-
V
*
'
rii
■
m
.
.T-
HELP!
How can he know how laces are tied? Or tell the time, or pick out colours ... or the
myriads of momentous things which make the big, wide world revolve around him? How
can busy parents find time for all the pre-school knowledge which a child demands?
This, the most important knowledge children ever absorb, which shapes their lives and
personalities irrevocably.
NOW FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA . . . from Golden Books—a name
you’ve come to trust—comes an outstanding aid to parents ... to give children
the all-important pre-school-in-the-home-help they so desperately need And for
which parents have never been properly equipped.
PLAY CHARTS . . . TEACHING MACHINE. Called “Adventures in Learning, it
contains all the elements vour youngsters need for a solid foundation. 16
colourful, programmed books deal with every important subject . . . delightful
play charts teach every-dav skills. The “Learnatron” teaching machine is the
first of its kind in the world.
Too often parents are unaware until it is too late how much a child can benefit
from increased pre-school teaching in the home. Too often children miss out on
the opportunities they deserve. Don't let this be the case in your home!
YOU CAN BENEFIT FROM THIS UNIQUE PROGRAMME! SEND THE COUPON TODAY
'FOR FREE AND OBLIGATION-FREE DETAILS WHICH WILL GIVE YOl’K CHILDREN
THE ■ VITAL PRE-SCHOOL TEACHING WHICH HELPS THEM TO ADJUST AND
COMPETE IN THEIR VITAL. EARLY SCHOOL DAYS.
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY.. .TO:
NATIONAL LITERARY ASSOCIATION INC. PTY. LTD.
10 DOWLING STREET, POTTS POINT, N.S.W.
I
§
Special premiere offer—exclusive
to charter subscribers ... a
fascinating, colourful “learn-to-
do-it-yourself" chart kit. For obli-
gation-free details of “Adventures
in Learning,” mail this coupon
now! Offer not applicable in
W.A. or outside Aust.
ADDRESS
iVELY DISTRIBUTED IN AUSTRALIA BY THE NATIONAL LITERARY ASSOCIATION INC. PTY. LTD.


?>
„j. .altimba
WINS
Am
&
ONE OF A SERIES
Oak from the forests of Nevers in France has for centuries
played a major part in establishing the reputation of
famous French dry reds. This same oak is imported by
Yalumba to make 100 gallon puncheons to mature the
prize-winning Galway Vintage Claret and Yalumba
Burgundy. After two years quiet maturity in these oak
casks the wine is bottled and laid down in huge bins in deep,
cool cellars to reach their peak of bouquet and flavour.
YALUMBA CELLARMASTER SUGGESTS
vCbal-
YALUMBA GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
This renowned red table wine is
blended from two varieties of grapes
Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz
(hermitage). Cabernet Sauvignon, a
light cropping variety, gives a wine a
full bouquet and a soft tannin, while
the wine from Shiraz grapes imparts a
soft, round, full flavour. All grapes
used are grown in the Barossa and
McLaren Vale districts, where climate,
rainfall and soil quality are ideal.
Labelled with the vintage year.
YALUMBA CARTE d’OR
RIESLING
A vintage wine made solely from
Rhine Riesling Grapes grown in
Angaston, Eden Valley and Springing-
ton areas, picked and fermented in the
year shown on the label. Yalumba
Carte d’Or is bottled while young,
mainly in August/September of the
vintage year, and then carefully aged
in the bottle.
nliimbu
TABLE WINES
VU.tWM
' 'iff/ .
Famous since 1849
Vintaged by S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, S.A.
SS 898
LETTERS
The Population Fizzle
Sir,
The article (8., May 28) of Mr. Kevin
Cairns, MHR, on Australia s falling birth-
rate underlines the seriousness of the prob-
lem very well, and shows the need to take
steps to ensure that the growth of our
population keeps pace with the require-
ments of industry and commerce. The
weakness of his article lies in his assump-
tion that the only remedy is to create
favorable conditions for the more rapid
breeding of the indigenous population.
It is a moot point whether any country
has the moral right to urge its women to
bear more children when the world, taken
as a whole, is already overcrowded. But
few economists would argue that this, as
a way of increasing the population, is as
cheap as encouraging immigration on a
larger scale than now exists. The cost per
child (for 14 to 21 years each) to the
Government under Mr. Cairns’ scheme
would be crippling. This cost might eventu-
ally be offset by the long-term benefits of
the scheme to industry and commerce, but
why pay it in the first place when a
cheaper remedy is at hand?
Australia’s annual intake of migrants
from her traditional sources appears to
have reached its limit, and we should not
hesitate to look elsewhere for prospective
citizens. Assisting Asians to migrate to
Australia would cost less than making the
same offer to Europeans, and far less than
the increased child endowment advocated
by Mr. Cairns. If this plan appears to
ignore past Australian prejudices, it must
be questioned whether many Australians
today are “anti-Asian.” Mr. Cairns’ scheme,
as he himself admits, would require “a
different social code toward families and
children” than we now hold. Which of
these attitudes will it be easier and more
practical to change in present and future
generations of Australians? Above all,
which attitude must we change if Aus-
tralia is not to be regarded as an anach-
ronism, a white-supremacist enclave on
the edge of Asia?
K. J. RYE
Carlton (Vic.)
CONTENTS
Crisis at N.W. Cape 63
Football Who Cares? 29
Two Ways To Live With Asia . . 18
Meeting Mary McCarthy 35
Short Story by Manning Clark . . 51
One More Week 26
The Other Sex 33
Arts and Entertainment 47
Books 55
Business and Finance 58
Man On The Land 75
Speculator’s Diary 80


Nobody in Australia is
making revolutionary PVC
conduit skirting.
Yet.
Could it be
the new product
that launches
your company into
profitable diversification?
■a
■Hi
: ,
:■ I,.:,:..:;..--.-:
&
••••
1
• Conduit skirting made from Geon rigid PVC
is being used now in America. In homes and
particularly factories, offices and stores it is
proving extremely useful where multiple out-
lets are required without breaking into walls
or floors. Conduit skirting saves time in build-
ing and electrical installations.
The Geon rigid vinyl used in this skirting
has been approved by Underwriters’ Labora-
tories for surface and underground conduit. It
will not support combustion, has high impact
strength, does not dent, can be made in
colours, can be painted if desired and cleaned
easily with detergents.
Which company will be first to make rigid
skirting in Australia? Why not yours?
With Geon resins and our world-wide re-
sources and technical know-how, this skirting
could start you on a new field of diversification.
And skirting is just the beginning. The possibil-
ities for other new building products made
from Geon are almost limitless. Call or write
now. Let us help you explore the manufactur-
ing possibilities which interest you.
gsds
A job for vinyl
is a job for Geon
—polyvinyl chloride resins for industry.
RE Goodrich
B.F. Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty. Ltd., Dept. E, P.O. 2538, G.P.0., Melbourne. 65-8221
MS9B3


MAC BAREN’S FINEST
: '
i-?
\
m
w
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
PLU M CAKE
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure*
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 89c
SAIBB/1
N.Z. Share Prices
Sir,
1 note that you have quoted the dividend
yield on N.Z. Forest Products Limited
ordinaries from the current price of $2.90
as 2.9% (8., May 21). Actually the
dividend yield on an 8% return (N.Z.) is
3.48% and on the increased dividend of
9%, that has been foreshadowed, the yield
would be 3.88%.
I feel that this matter is important
because, while a low yield in this case
does indicate a high demand for the
shares, there are some shareholders who
may superficially think that relatively they
are getting a small return.
H. A. HAMBLY,
Aust. Agent for
N.Z. Forest Products Ltd.
Melbourne (Vic.)
[THE BULLETIN share list now treats
all dividends on New Zealand stocks net
of 15 percent withholding tax. Current
yield on N.Z. Forest Products appears on
Page 71. —Ed.]
Meat Crisis
Sir,
Your readers in other States may be
interested to learn something about West-
ern Australia’s current meat crisis a
subject which like many others may seem
remote to them but is causing concern
here.
Western Australia has priced herself
out of the meat export market in the past
few weeks, and the high prices have cre-
ated such buyer resistance that a number
of wholesale and retail butchers have been
forced out of business. These weeks just
before spring lamb comes on the market
are always bad, but this year the whole-
sale price of beef is twice the price it was
this time last year. And while housewives
are refusing to buy steak because the price
is too high, the retail butchers say they
have had to trim their margins drastically.
In fact, many are selling at or below cost
rather than shut up shop.
A freak combination of circumstances
has brought upon the extreme beef short-
age. First, it is part of a world-wide meat
shortage. This means the exporter has been
bidding against the local consumer to
keep prices high and will again when
values come back to a realistic level. For
beef is worth about $l2 million a year to
the West, ranking behind only wheat, wool,
and minerals on the list of major exports.
The next major factor has been a sig-
nificant change in the pattern of primary
production in the West. About ten years
ago, many wheat farmers diversified by
carrying some beef stock, but their returns
fell so low they sold up and did not re-
plenish their herds. Two years ago beef
was at such a low price that many growers
were advised to switch to sheep; since then
the level of prices has soared, and former
beef growers are unwilling to try to get
back into the game because they would be
competing with local butchers and ex-
porters to inflate prices further.
To a smaller extent, this is also happen-
ing with sheep. While eastern States pas-
toralists were losing sheep to the drought,
Western Australians were crying out for
more stock.
Additionally, the grasses this year have
not been good and growers sold early.
Also the changing pattern of demand,
largely reflecting migrants’ tastes, has
meant the slaughter ot calves only a few
weeks old. Meanwhile, Western Austra-
lian housewives are paying twice as much
for steak as for chicken, or are switching
away from beef and mutton.
B. HEFFERNAR,
Mt. Lawley (W.A.)
'
Valgar
Sir,
Taking the risk of being branded a
“prude,” I must object to the publication
of the short story by lan Mudie: “What
DID I Have On?” (8., May 28). It was
neither flippant nor funny; only vulgar
and printed in the wrong magazine.
MRS. J. VAN DER SMAN
Mt. Garnbier (S.A.)
Muggeridge's God
Sir,
It must be a great relief to everyone,
including, I am sure, the Person chiefly
concerned, that Malcolm Muggeridge (8.,
May 21) is able to reply with such a
vigorous affirmative to his question “Is
There a God?” However, it is notable that
Muggeridge, like most elderly white male
conservatives, assumes that God also is
elderly, white, male, and conservative.
(And, of course, a Muggeridge fan. “I am
convinced that God wants me,” he says
something that not even Isaiah dared
say.)
Supposing that (not too soon, we hope)
Muggeridge finds the throne occupied by
a God who is young (at least unaffected
by time), female (more intimately con-
cerned with creation than males), dark
(creating most humans in her own color
as well as her own image), and capable of


A new approach
to dictating...
the IBM
Executary 224
Taking a trip overseas . . . interstate?
Now the portable IBM 224 dictating unit
is ready to help you pin down loads of details
—right on board the plane.* Instead of
picking up a pencil, pick up the 224. Flick
a switch and say what you want to say.
Now. When you want to say it.
The new 224 is the most portable dictating
machine you can buy. It's also the easiest
to use. Let it speak for itself. A short
demonstration will convince you that
here is something new and different, an
IBM approach to the problems of dictation.
Weighs just 28 ozs. / Full size 6" x 4%"
x 1 3 A" / Cordless.
* Approved by the Department of Civil Aviation
IBM
AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
.
1
mM
t
iiisit®
gbxdg
18M67


• «■
(£
>0
sSq,
2T
o o
CPA
FASTEST TO CANADA
HOW?
SUPER DCB JETS
THAT'S HOW! NON-STOP
DIRECT FROM HAWAII
TO VANCOUVER
VANCOUVER—
THE GATEWAY TO
ALL MAJOR CANADIAN
AND U.S. CITIES
Canadian Pacific is fastest to Vancouver —gateway to all North
America. You'll save enough flying time for a side trip to Banff
and Lake Louise —Canada’s wonder mile-high in the Rockies! See
your travel agent for details.
FLY
AIRLINES
dg
Incorporated in Canada. Limited Co. Canadian Pacific/Trains/Planes/
Trucks/Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete trans-
portation system. Sydney office: 247 George Street, Sydney. 27-3411.
Melbourne office: 59 William Street, Melbourne. 61-3371. General sales
agents: Ansett-ANA.
ASK YOUR TRAVEL AGENT ABOUT
THE VANCOUVER VISITORS’
HOSPITALITY PROGRAMME
STARTING IN SEPTEMBER
wanting “utopians” and others jeered at by
Muggeridge in this and other articles just
as much as she is presumed to “want”
Muggeridge? It’s as well to be prepared!
W. A. WOOD
Mosrnan (N.S.W.)
Teachers’ Election
Sir,
The article “A Marxist Lesson” by Brian
Buckley (8., May 28) implies that I am
standing on behalf of the Communist Party
in an election for the committee of the
Victorian Secondary Teachers’ Association
and that I am an official spokesman for
the Communist Party. No evidence is given
for either of these implications and in
fact they are not true. Any public state-
ments I have made on education in such
journals as “Arena” and “Outlook” are
not intended to represent the viewpoint
of any political party and in actual fact are
purely my personal views.
DOUG WHITE
Clayton (Vic.)
Racists and the ABC
Sir,
Mr. Frank Roberts’ accusation in Letters
(8., May 28) of my misquoting him about
the ABC’s “Four Corners” cannot remain
unchallenged. His complaint that only part
of the sentence “Either Penlington or
people he interviewed labelled them racist
. . .” was quoted makes matters even
worse and reaffirms more strongly the
point I made in my first letter. The rele-
vant fact is that neither Penlington nor
anyone else on the program labelled
“them” racist. “Them” in this instance
were counter-demonstrators at an anti-
Vietnam meeting.
Moreover at no time did Penlington
himself label anyone, and the point of
Mr. Roberts’ observation that “Penling-
ton’s own remarks certainly were not cut
into two parts” escapes me, for neither
did I suggest that they were nor does this
suggestion have any meaning, since Pen-
lington was with the program at all times,
being the only common denominator to the
otherwise unrelated episodes.
A. ABOLINS
South Yarra (Vic.)
China’s Bumper Crop
Sir,
May I, through you, congratulate Mr.
David M. Abbott on his letter (8., May
28) in which, in varying shades of hysteria,
he defended the policy of selling wheat to
China.
In enumerating his points of view he
began by saying that we are not at war.
Perhaps he did not see the Press interview
given (or, should I say, donated) by our
ex-Prime Minister toward the end of his
reign (an appropriate choice of word, I
think, to describe the term of office of that
latter-day male Boadicea, whose methods
of informing the Australian people per
medium of the domestic Press were typi-
fied lately by his using that fine old Aus-
tralian daily, the London “Times,” to give
his impressions of this country’s future).
However, as Mr. Abbott infers, South
Vietnam has no connection with North
Vietnam, which has no connection with
China, which has no connection with Com-
munism, which has no connection with the
security of Australia. The events in Viet-
nam are merely part of a small fracas
which has no chance of developing into a
long-term threat to world peace. Finally,
may I express my gratitude for having had
the opportunity to read such objective, un-
biased statements on the selling of wheat
to China; and, believing that gratitude-
causing deserves a suitable reward, I wish
Mr. Abbott a bumper, export-quality crop.
RICHARD T. DORAN
Concord West (N.S.W.)
S ave Our Resources
Sir,
Seldom have I read such a penetrating
review of the problem confronting us over
foreign domination of our national re-
sources as appeared in your financial pages
(8., May 21).
It i s now the better part of a year
s } nce a price for indigenous oil at the re-
finery was fixed by the Government. This
was the last thing recorded of any moment
in benefit that has emanated from Federal


II
jgjipi ' *
We make some of our plastics for paper makers,
m
H
' .*■ » :
< - A s 'w. N •v\ v -'-s "<yC'-
»14: ;
■ - .*. ' - ■ ■* •
J 4-
jS& 3- r rr •
■■•■■ -A:-. : •" .:
~ ssS .~
•*v; •»• ~, <~x ■■ - ••*.- '- > ''
- «; .*,<v» sa®
-. ' - i
WmMMmMmm
some for carpet makers,
1 *;
f- >
% k'
.... , :• f '
_tr . ,
. #"** JL. - i
. 4'
r~
(r
SSfeg gg|
wwwmm
mm:
w
P I.M
mm
m
' V
: i
:-•■
some for auto makers
You never know where you'll find our
plastics. Our polystyrene resins in-
crease the stability of paper. Our
styrene-butadiene latexes go into
carpet backing. Our Saran* mono-
filaments are used in automobile up-
holstery. And that’s just a beginning.
Our list of specialised plastics goes
and some we even make for other plastic companies.
on and on. Our monomers are
widely used in the production of
surface coatings and plastics of all
kinds. Our plastics aren’t being
selected by accident, either. It all
came about because of our reputa-
tion for reliability and uniformly
high quality plastics, chemicals and
agricultural chemicals, regardless of
quantity. We’d like to have the
privilege of putting our products in
whatever you make. May we? For
further information contact Dow
Chemical (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
M.L.C. Building, 105 Miller Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
• Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company
I»T*


Dinner for two
•••
a 4
W
or a sumptuous banquet
Whatever your taste in food from the
simple to the sumptuous Menzies can
cater for it. Right in the centre of
Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
controlled air-conditioning, genuine 24-
hour room service, and free in-hotel
parking for your car. Menzies wide
range of restaurants brings you food
from the four corners of the world!
Emperor Room Nightclub features gourmet
menu with floor show nightly at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children.)
j'/Sh'j'lZli;
. n rrtuLß b. b n_n n w
n ir-nn mm nn nr
iuun_rium nn nn
i_n_.nn fmj.n_n.njn_
_n.jnr._.r.n_r..r_nri ml
lb nn nn nn rb nn
E_riri..rnnn nn nr
•immi-iili
H
in mi mi m
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
m
m
fiiiiiil
MZU34
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA—Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza. MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal. MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND—Lennons, BRISBANE; Lennons, TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA—Wrest Point Riviera. HOBART.
sources. This has also been the case with
other valuable mineral discoveries and, in
view of the astrnomical figures of the capi-
tal requirements to develop them, this in-
activity respecting policy, aid, and appro-
priate legislation is all the more remark-
able.
This Association believes, with you, that
an appreciable quota of what funds are
required over the years can, and must, be
provided locally, principally by banks,
institutions, and the more responsible and
informed sections of the public and indus-
try. To stimulate and assume its provision,
the Government will naturally have re-
sponsibility for its direction and the “guide-
lines” lead should be forthcoming at the
earliest possible moment if not now,
especially in view of the likely denial to
us of sources from abroad and the increas-
ing tempo of the unpleasantness to our
north. If, also, realisation that the whole
of the national effort should be geared, in
appropriate manner, with our all-out de-
fence effort comes about, a Government
urge to do something positive about it is
then demanded.
JOHN STREVENS
Australian President,
Oil and Mineral Shareholders
Association
Sydney ( N.S.W.)
THE KELLY GANG
bulletin
86 YEARS AGO: JUNE 12, 1880
rpHE Australian aboriginal is a doomed
man. His future was blasted before
his birth by the vices of the white man,
whose fault is that the aboriginal race
is infected with disease transmitted from
father to son, from generation to genera-
tion. Drunkenness and degradation are
at all times pitiable sights; but the
aboriginal’s appearance, as he wanders
along the streets of Sydney, which were
once his hunting grounds, is lent an
additional melancholy by the tattered
finery in which he is arrayed. He coughs,
and everyone perceives he is in con-
sumption. He hblds out his hand for
money and laughs, and everyone knows
that the coppers will be changed for
beer; everyone perceives that the black
man’s laugh is a drunken chuckle
that his bright eyes are lit up by the
white man’s firewater and the fierce
flame which in the paleface would pro-
duce the hectic flush of puluv.nary
disease. Heaven help him! His gaiei , has
no parallel save the mad laughter one
hears in a lunatic asylum. It is too late
to talk of preserving the aboriginal race.
It is, and always was, Utopian to try
to Christianise it. Rum and European
clothes have ruined the people who half
a century ago were temperate and
naked.
I T has now become known that Ser-
geant Kennedy’s life was taken by the
Kelly gang in a very cold-blooded man-
ner. He was but wounded on the day
of the encounter, and was allowed to
live all night so that the gang might
learn from him how to work his Spencer
rifle. On the following morning Ned
Kelly shot him dead through the breast.


How to read a cork
and astound your friends
Tonight, when you coax the stopper
from a bottle of your favourite wine,
spare a few moments and consider
the cork.
It may seem an insignificant object,
dull and -mundane, but it has an
interesting story to tell.
It started its life as a tiny part of the
craggy bark covering a majestic tree
in Portugal. Tonight, it will have com-
pleted its task, and have nothing
before it but an ignominious trip to
the dust bin.
What was this task? A vital one in the
maturing and ageing of your wine. It
created a seal that was not a seal. ..
a barrier that prevented the wine from
escaping, but at the same time
allowed just the right amount of air
to enter the bottle and mature the
wine correctly.
You could say that the relationship,
between air and wine is much the
same as between salt and food. Too
much can spoil the final result
too little leaves the best flavour
unrealised.
You see, cork is porous. It is naturally
honeycombed with thousands of
minute air passages that allow the
wine to reach through to the air it
needs to "age'' properly. Air (or
rather the oxygen in the air) gives the
wine its chance to reach adulthood
and develop the full character you
expect from your wine.
If you look closely you can see the
tiny holes. As a matter'of fact, if the
wine you're serving happens to be a
a
* >
3
i m
.
.
-j.
m m
>z -
.
lh> — •
red this will be easier, because the
natural tannins of the red wine will
have stained the cork showing you
where the wine has been.
So how do you read a cork? If it’s too
moist the wine might be “pricked” or
sour tasting. If there’s a web-like
substance inside the cork it has prob-
ably been attacked by the cork moth.
If the cork is too dry, the wine has
been improperly stored it has been
left standing upright and the wine has
not had a chance to reach through
the cork for its ration of air.
Actually, you don’t have to worry
about the cork if the wine comes from
Penfolds. Every Penfolds cork is care-
fully selected and inspected many
times before it reaches your bottle
department or liquor store.
Tonight, give the cork its due consid-
eration. Judge it to see that it has
done its appointed job. Then dispose
of it kindly. (Some people even keep
a collection.)
The wines that need particular atten-
tion to corking and uncorking
are the classic table wines (such as
Penfolds famous Dalwood or Eden
Valley wines). Choose them carefully,
store them carefully, draw the cork
carefully. Your attention is rewarded
by the wine itself particularly if it is
Penfolds.
BE WINE WISE, CHOOSE
PENF«LDS
WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844


Face of the Week
All five members of the Vernon
Committee were called to give evidence
in the national wage case. Savings
banks lent a record $85.6 million for
housing in the March period. The
Queensland elections ' preserved the
status quo, and Mr. Calwell said he
was disappointed. There were doubts
about Britain’s future defence plans in
Asia. The Ist Battalion returned to
Australia wearing the new Vietnam
service ribbon, while the sth Battalion
saw action. Thirty Federal trade unions
decided against a Government scheme
for adult retraining in new trades. Dr.
Cairns was invited to Fiji by an Atomic
Explosion Protest Committee but cold
not to engage in political activities
while there. Car sales fell during April
despite the release of new models, and
Singapore increased registration fees
for Australian cars, leading GM-H to
consider establishing a plant in Singa-
pore. Queensland Governor Sir Alan
Mansfield suggested doubled licence
fees for convicted dangerous drivers.
★
A Hobart housewife received a call-
up for National Service training. Harry
Chan, MLC, became Mayor of Dar-
win. Russ Tyson resigned from the
ABC after 17 years conducting part of
the breakfast program and hospital
half-hour. Women served on juries in
Victoria for the first time. Queensland
RSL congress favored military train-
ing for all young men, but opposed the
“lottery” selection for NS trainees.
Falls of up to 2in. of rain were received
in drought areas of north-western
N.S.W. A four-day stoppage at two
Broken Hill mines was settled. The
import ban on “In Another Country”
was lifted by the Commonwealth.
★
An RAAF pilot made an “impos-
sible” crash landing after a hawk lodged
in a Mirage intake jet. It was National
Timber Week. New postal orders re-
placed postal notes. Four shipwrecked
men and a boy were rescued drifting in
a dinghy off Darwin. Sydney had a
24-hour power strike. Vandals wrecked
about 200 parking meters in Mel-
bourne, others a Graham Kerr dis-
play kitchen in Wellington, N.Z.
National Development Minister Fair-
bairn left for Madrid and a World
Forestry Conference, Navy Minister
Chaney left for Canada. England’s
Rugby League team arrived in Dar-
win. Victoria’s Combined Animal Wel-
fare Organisation protested against the
misuse of whips in racing. Former
BULLETIN balladist Edward Harring-
ton, 71, died in Melbourne.
★
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2-0606.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666, Ext. 2504.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4501
JUNE 11, 1965
Business and the Press
IF recent staggering company
losses have shown anything, it is
the need to reduce the gap between
what some company directors want
to tell their shareholders and what
the shareholders want to know.
Business leaders have suggested
several ways to do this, ranging from
improving company law and activa-
ting the Stock Exchanges, down to
giving annual awards for the best
company reporting. But one of the
most important factors, not always
appreciated by directors, is the
exposure of companies to criticism
by the financial Press. To fulfil this
traditional role, financial journalists
have to do more than translate indi-
gestible board-room prose into the
language of the shareholders; they
have also to explain to their readers
the real meaning of the news which
directors issue especially in those
fortunately few cases where there
have been deliberate attempts by
directors to mislead the public.
Financial journalists have made
mistakes (often in interpreting badly
prepared hand-outs) but one thing is
clear: the cases where alert financial
reporting has saved public money
are far more significant than these
mistakes which in any case do not
mean huge losses of public savings
and jobs, do not destroy the stability
of whole industries, and do not
damage the reputation of Australian
businessmen in overseas capital
markets.
Nevertheless, from time to time
important people in important
places make unfair criticisms of the
financial Press as a whole. Take, for
example, the recent remarks of Mr.
E. S. Owens. Mr. Owens is a highly
respected Sydney accountant. At a
dinner last week of the Australian
Institute of Management, he gave as
his reason for opposing the pressure
to introduce compulsory quarterly
reports by companies that it “would
give the Press another opportunity to
have a go at us.” He defended his
point by giving one good example of
bad reporting and by referring ta
crude headlines.
Mr. Owens deserves credit for
having brought the tension between
some sections of business and the
Press into the open, but his comments
hardly advance the discussion. He
ignores the fact that in many cases
companies get the Press they deserve.
Companies, for example (not inclu-
ding the one he mentioned), that wait
until late at night to release to the
Press momentous news o f multi-
million dollar losses can hardly hope
that, in the hour or so left for
the journalist to write his story,
it could be anything more than
a badly prepared report. As for the
vulgarity of such headings as “Direc-
tors Quit” used according to Mr.
Owens simply because the word
“Quit” fits the space Mr. Owens
might also consider how a newspaper
should deal with the sort of situation
in which a company director
“retires for health reasons,” only to
start up another company within
weeks; or in which the announce-
ment is accompanied by news that
the company’s assets have been
severely written down; or that the:
declared dividend will not be paid.
It is pointless in such circumstances
to insist that the financial Press should
simply reprint what directors decide
to announce about their companies.
Clearly the financial Press and
company directors must get closer
together to solve the problems of
misunderstanding. But putting up
the Press as an Aunt Sally for dis-
gruntled directors is not a solution.


THIS AUSTRALIA
CONFRONTATION
Back to Blood Brotherhood
WITH champagne glasses on the table Malaysia’s Tun Abdul Razak leant across
to Indonesia’s Adam Malik. Both smiled for the cameras and grasped the historic
communique in a symbolic gesture of togetherness. To suggestions of last-minute
difficulties in their Bangkok peace talks, Mr. Malik snapped his fingers. “Difficulties?
They are like mosquito bites. You rub lotion over them and they’re gone, like that!”
From Bangkok, where he covered the
peace talks, Harvey Stockwin reports on
“the beginning of the end” of confronta-
tion:
, r ■
The combat casualties of confrontation
have been: five Austral.ans and New
Zea'anders failed five wounded; 22 British
killed 60 wounded; 39 Gurkas killed 60
wounded; 46 Malaysians (including
police) killed, 51 wounded; 36 civilians
killed, 53 wounded 4 taken prisoner; 580
Indonesians killed, 220 wounded, approxi-
ma e y cap ure .
But, for the most part, konfrontas,
has not been an open war openly pur-
sued just as it was not ended last week
in Bangkok
r> , k V j x j „ r. ii
Rather the process adopted at Bangkok
(and over the past few weeks) reminded
n 0 . , e u ° l s 0 ., 0 , ne socia wor-er
who tried to get Malays to run co-
operatives in the rural areas. “One simply
cannot expect,” he said, “that they will
j- r r .. , , ’ ,
discuss faults, methods, and approaches
j- .i ,i ~ T , .
directly or bluntly This goes against the
grain. Sometimes it is a very painful pro-
cess, often it is long drawn out, but, if
there is a disagreement over something
between the majority and a minority then
the majority will not say bluntly how and
i .i • •. ■ 1 1
why the minority is wrong anymore than
the minority will straightforwardly assert
the majority’s foolishness. It will all be
J v. r u r • •
ret :|7oTcL°UTe;Tin ie Jt m fhe”
ri. n ’
for hours until eventually some consensus
• . „ i ii
is arrived at
Malaysms Deputy-Prime Minister, Tun
Abdul Razak, himself invoked the rural
image, too when he spoke of the village
kmdun (feast) which usually precedes
local settlements in this part of the world.
The reaching of a settlement is every-
thing; the precise details of the consensus
are less lmpoi tant. The one signal fact
established is that Indonesia and Malaysia
are together again and have become
friends through the due process of musha-
warah (close brotherly consultations).
fo ask for the precise details of settle-
ment or to query whether friendly feelings
are sufficient to paper over the diver-
gencies of national interest is to be a
sceptical rational Westerner at odds
with the local envnonment.
What has happened, in the words of the
final Press statement in Bangkok, is that
“having had careful and thorough delibera-
tion on problems affecting relations be-
tween their two countries, they have agreed
to submit for approval to their respective
governments the principles upon which
practical steps to restore friendly relations
between the two countries should be based.”
These principles have been itemised in
the notes that were exchanged, and the
understanding of them has b?en embodied
in letters bet “ ee „ Indonesian Foreign Min-
is,er Ma|ik and Tun Razak Qn d
the wa will then be open for the " stora .
tion of diplomatic relations and the solu-
tion of the varlous technical difficulties
whjch endi konfrontasi will entaik
Al| of which is the
more remarkable
when set against the background “three
vears of § ;fficulties ove * come in three
d .. as Xun Razak described it . Even
the date of (he Bangkok talks was in dis .
pute for some time > J ud § ed b Y th e gap
between the original announcement that
Razak had a | d to meet Malik there
and the start s of , he ta]ks on May 30 It
was g enera jjy a g ree d that konfrontasi was
• , j • j . , ' ~ 1
movm « , toward . “J dem,se ’ but Ma,a >: sla
gained sceptical as were many other
observers some still are), as to Indonesian
<< . .
unity on ending confrontation in both
fom / and substanc \
T , , . ,
Then came an event more dramatic than
that happened a Bangkok and
Pf 1 - l Pj mal " s 'r lll ” a " > °°- ut o t e
bl “> h, . erall >'. and fi ,?“gtively, came an
Indonesian Air rorce Hercules carrying
, . , T . 5
n 0 P ara loopers o rop on a is ut m-
Stead a military goodwill mission com-
prising officers of all units of the Crush
Malaysia Command .(KOGAM) They
were the hrst Indonesians to officially enter
. , , , , . y .. ,
Malaysia, and be welcomed, since well be-
fore August 1963.
Breakfast at Tun Razak’s residence in
Kuala Lumpur; lunching at the Tunku’s
home in Alor Star 2 00 miles to the north;
discussing in the National Operations
Room _ c Ve would Hke tQ regtore friend .
ship with Malaysia on a lasting basis” said
the mission > s leader} Rear-Admiral Sjaaf—
and - n tke ca ßi n et room of the Parliament
building; hugging, chatting, saluting, or
mixing, the military mission certainly
create d goodwill, the “right atmosphere for
talks ” wh ich Kuala Lumpur has always in-
sisted upon
“Welcome to the goodwill mission, our
blood-brothers from Indonesia” proclaimed
tke Banner outside the Tunku’s home,
Inevitably, those not drawn into the
emotions of it all tend to add up the
profit and loss account. Indonesia has cer-
tainly accepted what she previously
rejected. The word Malaysia no longer
needs inverted commas in official Djakarta
pronouncements. Malaysia has not insisted
fully upon what she previously demanded
Razak and Sjaaf—together again.
—an Indonesian declaration of ending
confrontation.
As yet, there have been no forthright
apologies or regrets and Malaysia has been
content with them being implied, not
stated. Indonesia “lost face” by sending
her mission to Kuala Lumpur and Alor
Star, and in return Malaysia deferred to
Indonesian desire to keep the agreement
“secret” until the due process of Djakarta
manoeuvring confirms it. This means due
regard has been paid to President
Soekarno’s ever-diminishing, but still not
inconsiderable, powers. In this connection,
not least of the symbols in a week which
was largely symbolic was the presentation
of books of Soekarno’s speeches to the
Tunku, balanced by the salutes given him,
on arrival and departure, by the KOGAM
representatives, and the acknowledgment
by one of the Indonesians over Radio
Malaysia’s overseas service that he was
“Father of his people.”
All in all,, the giving appears well
balanced by the taking, although final
judgment must await solution of the tech-
nicalities, most important of which is the
means by which Sabah and Sarawak
opinion is “re-ascertained,” and how the
two countries agree to settle the problem
of the Sarawak Communist elements
Indonesia herself once trained in the
savage arts of subversion.
In the longer run it remains to be seen
how Malaysia and Indonesia will learn to
live together, how the self-interest of a
potentially powerful nation of well over
100 million is reconciled to that of its
small neighbors, on this occasion buttressed
by Western power, the largest segment of
which, being at the mercy of British Labor
Party mushawarah, seems destined for
early, and maybe final, departure. For
those who feel that the casualty figures
mentioned earlier were an expensive way
to bring about this week’s “good neigh-
borly” feelings, it is as well to point out
that, in this sub-region at least, the West-
ern presence 1963-66 has helped bring
about an Asian solution to an Asian prob-
lem which all those directly concerned at
Bangkok were happy about.
Whether this “solution” will lead in the
long run to the further removal of that
presence or the need for it is but one of
the numerous questions the Bangkok
accord raised but left unanswered.


DEFENCE
Still East of Suez
rwas the week of the long cables in Canberra. The reports started coming
through that despite innumerable assurances to the contrary Britain might after
all withdraw her forces from Asia. It appears that the Government’s strong, sharp,
and public reaction was based almost entirely on newspaper reports.
According to these reports those within
the British Labor Party who wanted to
pull out had the numbers. Moreover the
reports claimed that ministers like Defence
Minister Healey and Foreign Secretary
Stewart were going with the tide. After
several well-publicised messages to the
Australian High Commissioner in London,
Sir Alexander Downer, a reply was finally
received.
Described as a “long cable” from Sir
Alexander Downer, it set Government fears
to rest. At his Thursday morning Press
briefing Mr. Holt expressed quite unquali-
fied satisfaction with the results of his in-
quiries. Mr. Wilson had given the firmest
reassurances that his Government would
not back out and that a military presence
in Singapore and the area generally would
be maintained. Well, what was all the
fuss about?
Partly it was poor intelligence in Lon-
don but also it was a matter of Mr.
Holt’s political style. He wanted Austra-
lians to know that the Government was
acting strongly on their behalf, making
every effort to keep the British as a
stabilising influence in the vital areas to
our north. Sir Robert Menzies would prob-
ably have made his inquiries privately.
Mr. Holt also undoubtedly felt that an
Australian reaction might, if only margin-
ally, influence the outcome of the clash
within the British Labor Party. People
close to the Prime Minister argued that
it would be dangerous for Australia not
to react to suggestions that Britain might
withdraw.
This might look as if we did not really
mind all that much.
The Government was concerned that in
the new British Parliament with the larger
Government majority and the greater
scope for backbench influence, it was pos-
Sir Alexander Downer Our man.
sible that Mr. Wilson and his Cabinet
might make concessions. They now say
they are quite confident that Mr. Wilson
will be resolute on his East of Suez policy.
They even go as far as to say that they
think he would be prepared to threaten
his rebels with an election were they to
press him to withdraw.
The British High Commission in Can-
berra moved right in to the fray attempt-
ing to pour oil on the waters. Its first
attempt, a bland reassurance that British
policy remained unchanged, was made
rather ridiculous by the allegation of for-
mer Navy Minister Mr. Mayhew that the
British Government was telling the Labor
Party one thing and us the opposite. But
later in the week the Commission released
a lengthy statement which was evidently
approved by Mr. Healey, personally.
The statement said that the British
Government believed that the greatest
risks of major conflict in the next ten
years lay in South-East Asia and that a
British presence could help reduce these
risks. The British defence statement in
February was a “recommittal of the nation
to its defence commitments and to its
proper part in defending the interests of
the free world.” The peacekeeping load
had to be more equitably shared than in
the past and Britain had to make savings.
“But withdrawal from Singapore is not
one of the budget savings” the British
Government wants to make.
Of course the whole debate about mili-
Dennis Healey their man.
tary policy in the Malaysian area is being
enlivened by the rapid changes in Indon-
esian foreign policy. The Australian Gov-
ernment is optimistic; Mr. Holt said at his
briefing that he welcomed the develop-
ments of the last month, but in his assess-
ment of the chances of an end to con-
frontation he would not go beyond the
statement of the Indonesians that we have
seen “the beginning of the end of con-
frontation.” It is accepted that British
forces in the area should be reduced to the
pre-confrontation level.
And Mr. Holt said that very active and
detailed negotiations were under way be-
tween British and Australian military men
to devise plans to provide for a continued
British presence should Singapore have to
be abandoned. He said, incidentally, that
the Government was considering offering
more assistance to Indonesia to help it
restore its economy, though it would want
to do this jointly with other nations.
VIETNAM
Saigon Departure
UNLIKE any other war, the second Indo-China campaign has come under a mass-
media microscope unique in history. Among the hundreds of correspondents who
have covered the war and the war within the war Gavin Young of the
London “Observer” has filed reports on the Australians in Vietnam, the Buddhist
struggles, and life in Saigon.
On leaving Vietnam this week he filed
his last report capturing the strange mood
of the war and the mixed reactions of the
people of Vietnam to it. Young writes:
As I leave Vietnam, Buddhist monks
have been burning themselves in political
frustration, and stickers saying “Batman
Is Coming” are going up in Saigon.
It is hard to see how anyone with a
modicum of sensitivity could fail to fall
in love with Vietnam and its people. I ex-
clude, of course, the unfortunate Ameri-
can soldiers in the mud and jungles who
must slog it out month after month with
only Saigon’s bars and brothels for recrea-
tion. One wonders, and doubts, if any
European people could have held up as
the Vietnamese have done in such a tiny
country, trapped by monstrous forces in
a period of national disaster so agonisingly
prolonged 25 years so far and no end
in sight.
The Vietnamese seem imbued with a
kind of Asian Dunkirk spirit plus a good
smattering of fatalism. They look like a
race of fragile dolls, but they bend and
do not break. They are a sentimental but
not hysterical people. At the same time
they are not the sort of “strength-through-,
joy” Asians who go around arrogantly
smashing planks of wood with their bare
fists. After all that the Japanese, the
French, and the Americans have done to
them, they have not given way to xeno-
phobia: Heaven knows why. They remain,
among rising prices and falling bombs,
hospitable, humorous, quick-witted, and.
I would say, gentle. Some people here


Here’s proof!
You’ll save S2OO to S5OO
on every fork lift truck with
G3IPHILGAS
Fork lift and other industrial truck engines give
more hours of work time per truck . . . and last up
to 3 times longer with Philgas. Why? Because there
are no carburettor or fuel pump problems, no car-
bon, sludge, sticky valves or rings—spark plugs
last several times longer . . . because Philgas is
today’s cleanest-burning fuel. As you lower main-
tenance costs you increase efficiency with Philgas.
No irritating fumes
Your trucks can be worked safely in the most con-
fined areas because there are no dangerous, irritating
fumes with Philgas. Switch your trucks to Philgas
now, specify Philgas for your new trucks —and start
saving money!
[PHILLIPS/
m
PH ILGAS
From the world’s largest l.p. gas company
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY!
For full details on how you can save money on your
fork lift trucks with Philgas, mail this coupon to:
Phillips Oil Products Ltd., Philgas Division,
235 Clarence Street. Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
PG33R


see them as a race of tiny Genghis Khans
and cite examples of torture and emascula-
tion in the villages. In a war as bitter
as this atrocities happen, all right.
Thich Tri Quang: going to visit him in
Hue on a swelteringly hot day I bicycle to
his pagoda with two Vietnamese Buddhist
students, stopping at a small teahouse to
drink iced coconut juice. It’s very quiet
in the pagoda courtyard. Among the trees
a bell tinkles. Pale novice monks with
shaven heads and traditional top-knots
glide about.
Tri Quang has a large head and a white,
coldly sensuous face. But he’s not the
horror to look at Yul Brynner playing
Dracula he often appears in Press
photos. His hands flutter, he chews sweets,
and picks his bare feet. His humor is mis-
chievous. His attendants shake with
sycophantic glee at every quick sally. One
can see that, with such a man, simple
American appeals to postpone political
agitation until the war is over the
Americans talk of. from five to ten years
are most unlikely to wash. To himself
and many others, Tri Quang is an em-
bodiment of Vietnamese sovereignty. Wait
until the end of the war to extricate
Vietnamese identity from a foreign-
dominated shambles and it may be too
late to extricate anything. And five or
ten years more of war may be tolerable
to the United States but what will be
left of Vietnam?
There’s something De Gaulle-like in all
this: particularly the wartime De Gaulle,
who fought Churchill and Roosevelt for
the right to control the destiny of France.
Perhaps LBJ in his memoirs will echo
Churchill: “the greatest cross I had to
bear in Vietnam was the Buddhist
Swastika.” In World War 11, British car-
toonists dubbed the Swasitka “the double
cross.”
On my way out of the pagoda, an
elderly monk approached tentatively to
ask: “Please tell me how is Hamp-
stead?” He had been there visiting
Buddhist friends a year or two ago.
The young American officers who have
volunteered for field service with Viet-
namese Army units are touchingly good.
They consider Saigon “a can of worms.”
They live and eat, despite stomach
troubles, with the Vietnamese soldiers.
Watching Vietnamese making a river
crossing like puppies, their heads under
over-large helmets just above the water
an American lieutenant said: “I’ve learnt
a lot from my Vietnamese officer. He’s been
fighting the war for 17 years. I salute him
and call him ‘Sir,’ just as I would an
American. One embarrassment though:
When we come under Viet Cong mortar
fire I have a hell of a lot of trouble
fighting off. our Vietnamese soldiers. The
five or six nearest will throw you down
and pile on top you to protect you
from shrapnel. Makes controlling the battle
kinda hard.”
Seventy-year-old Monsieur Biaggi has
lived in Saigon since he left the French
Army after World War I. He is small,
upright, and his gentle face is as creviced
and gnarled as a contour map of the Viet-
namese Central Highlands. He is devoted
to his Vietnamese mistress and smokes
opium steadily, but in moderation: “Fifteen
or 16 a day, monsieur.”
Biaggi would quite like to pay a last
visit to Corsica and France, where he has
relatives unseen for 40 years, but it is not
all that important. After years of invasions,
riots, the sound of somebody’s artillery
booming across the river, he remains kind,
wholly uncynical, and monumentally re-
signed. “If the French had judged the
Vietnamese better,” he says, unregretfully,
“their army would probably have been
here today.” As it is, the Americans are
here.
“We,” he says (sipping his Algerian
vin du patron and meaning “we Vietnam-
ese”), “we have learned to live with cir-
cumstances.” He stares vaguely at the Gls
spilling their drinks at the bar and rumin-
atively purses and unpurses his lips. He
dabbles with spiritualism.
Despite “Liberal” rumors to the con-
trary there is no sign that negroes are
being drafted into battle out of all pro-
portion to whites. I’ve seen white Gls —-
Southerners at that quite happily taking
orders from negro officers and NCOs.
(“Vietnam where the white men call
negroes ‘sir’,” A British correspondent has
said.)
A negro paratrooper, with gritted teeth
and sweat-streaked face, blasting away
with a machine-gun as Viet Cong bullets
pang about him, negro soldiers with ter-
rible, undefinable wounds being dragged
limply to rescue-helicopters in jungle clear-
ings: surely this is the final answer to
Governor Wallace, lan Smith, Dr. Ver-
woerd.
The Vietnamese family I stay with in
Hue mother, aunts, uncles, two sons,
two married daughters, a nephew lives
in a dark, rambling, wood-beamed house
on Hue’s high street behind a clothes shop
where six teenage tailors stitch away 12
hours a day.
None of them much like Tri Quang,
although their house is full of Buddhist
symbols. They disapprove of monks in
politics and think Tri Quang is too am-
bitious. Of the political agitation they ask:
“Where will all this end?” They think
General Ky is too weak to “stand up to
the Americans,” but they are very afraid
of a Viet Cong victory.
I spend a long, interesting time with
the Rector of Hue University, in his
lodgings. He is close to Tri Quang. He
talks of Vietnamese culture. Vietnam, he
says, is not somebody’s primitive colonial
possession. Communism is a foreign influ-
ence that must be resisted but Vietnam
must have a “legal” Government and be
able to raise a proud head to the world.
Some Americans think he is a Communist.
To draw him out, I say that surely from
the perfectly understandable point of view
of thousands of young Vietnamese facing
call-up any peace is better than war.
He looks astonished: “Monsieur, I must
make you realise before you go the dan-
ger in what you are saying,” and he
pours out two more Remy Martins. Later
I hear from a friend that he enjoyed the
talk, but thinks I am a dangerous neutral-
ist.
EDUCATION
Geelong Grammar Poet
Unfortunately for his own
privacy and peace, we all know
who goes to Geelong Grammar
school this year.
It is perhaps not so widely known
around the countryside that for all its
giant fees, social status, and famous old
boys at the heart of the great Australian
establishment Geelong Grammar is
also noted for what some have termed
a “radical left” tradition though
George Orwell might have used another
name for it.
As well as producing princes, pro-
fessors, Ministers of the Crown, manag-
ing directors, and landed gentlemen in
abundance, Grammar has also brought
to the shores of Corio Bay future
leaders of the Communist Party, num-
erous gentle fellow-travellers, and an
assortment of left-wing poets, bush bal-
ladists, and social realist writers.
The tradition of these latter rebels
lives on. A recent issue of “Tempo,”
the Geelong Grammar School News
magazine, contains a student’s 50-line
poem entitled “People of Vietnam,
Fight On.”
This is stanza 1:
. Long-suffering people of Vietnam
Scorched and blistered by napalm,
Sprayed and torn by tracer.
Reeking of gunsmoke and heroism
You will never bend your head.
The poet warms to this theme in
stanza 3:
Peasants raise aloft their pitchforks,
Workers reach for idle hammers,
Soldiers brandish glinting bayonets,
The People’s Army surges onward.
Follows the ringing stanza 6:
Suddenly the thunderous cry
Reverberates,
“Kill the rats.”
Aghast, the aggressors and their
T oadies
Flee futilely from the roaring
Avalanche of raging hearts,
Hate-distorted faces and clenched,
Murderous fists.
The final stanza clinches the moral:
Vietnamese people,
Batter the Yankee invaders
Mercilessly,
Your courageous revolution shakes
The earth.
People of Vietnam, fight on.
Under the poem the Editor of
“Tempo” has penned his simple paean
of people’s praise: “Hooray.”


I
1
i s
S%
V-
%
IT
i
»■
'T
Qantas is the only airline that allows you to pick
and choose from so many flights every week, direct
to the U.S.A. from Australia. If you’re flying to
New York- —only Qantas flies you there direct. If
you’re flying to London—only Qantas flies to London
on direct flights from Australia across the U.S.A.
If you’re looking for a no-extra-fare holiday in
Honolulu —Qantas offers Honolulu on every flight to
the U.S.A. Ask your Qantas Travel Agent (or
Qantas) about the Qantas “Extra Cities” Travel
Plan, in which you can fly to your choice of many
American cities for no extra airfare. Or ask about
Only Qantas
says 'Aloha every day of the week!
American tours that can be arranged for you here in
Australia. (For example, 99 days motor coach fare:
$88.40.) And ask any experienced traveller: he’ll
tell you how you’ll enjoy that immense Qantas sense
of hospitality as wide as the world Qantas flies to.
See your Travel Agent. Or telephone Qantas.
AUSTRALIA'S ROUND-WORLD AIRLINE
§ w a w. T m w a
45 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A., Qantas House, 70 Hunter St., Sydney.
‘Phone 2-0369; Canberra 4-4381; Melbourne 63-0151; Brisbane 31-2141; Adelaide 51-5961; Perth 23-1564/5/6; Hobart 2-7411; Darwin 3350/1.
Q15.103.668t


itrl
Schimmelpettninck
Duet
(Actual size)
in tins of 5,
packets of 10 and
barrels of 25.
Schinimelpeiminck
CIGARS
Hollands
finest cigars -
fast becoming
Australia’s
favourites
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars
are imported for your pleasure by
Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust.) Ltd.
sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V.
Wageningen Holland.
RPMisa
THE LABOR PARTY
McCarthyism of the Left
AS he predicted, Professor Heinz Arndt, of the Australian National University, has
been in trouble with the Labor Party in Canberra for his public attack on the
party’s Vietnam policy (8., May 7). Professor Arndt has criticised ALP leadership
on Vietnam and has claimed that some Left-wingers within the party want the Com-
munists to win in Vietnam.
A prominent local member of the ALP,
Mr. Michael Collins, who does his best to
live up to the revolutionary associations
his name conjures up, charged Professor
Arndt with disruption and disloyalty.
Arndt was brought before the South Can-
berra Branch to answer the charges.
He was expecting this, since he had
. . . , ... ....
been subjected to remarkable vilification
in the letters column of the Canberra
Times.” In what was very aptly described
by a later correspondent as the “Me-
Carthyism of the Left,” Arndt was sub-
jected to a rain of abuse, his actual argu-
ments being entirely ignored. Mr. T. Don-
nelly, a Southside supermarket proprietor,
chided him for “spasmodic attendances”
at branch meetings, called him a “weather-
vane of ultra Right-wing opinion,” and
referred to his “so very pro-monopoly
sympathies.”
Arndt went to the branch meeting well
prepared to carry on the fight, if necessary
taking it to the N.S.W. Executive. But
the meeting was something of an anti-
climax. Collins, Donnelly, and other arti-
culate Left-wingers failed to turn up and
the attacks on Arndt were incoherent and
unpersuasive. Although he had clearly
breached Party rules, he managed to get
votes against the motion declaring him
disruptive and disloyal to the 16 in favor.
He read out a strong statement re-
affirming his support for Australian policy
j n yi etnamj saying also that unless the
Labor Party underwent a Gaitskellite purge
it would be “thrashed” at the next elec-
tions.
Unlike Mr. Gough Whitlam, Arndt
vehemently refused to give any undertak-
ing to refrain in future from public com-
ment on Labor policy. The local member,
Mr. Jim Fraser, disassociating himself
from Arndt’s views, defended his right to
express them and a motion that no further
action be taken was passed on the voices,
Meanwhile Professor Arndt’s offending
article has been reprinted in at least six
different publications and has been a great
morale booster to resistance elements
within the ALP.
MEDICINE
The (Clomiphine) Pill
CATHOLICS and other conscientious or cautious abstainers from the current
steroid-based birth-control chemicals collectively known as the Pill may
choose to use clomiphine.
It induces ovulation at a predictable
time after consumption and it does not
suppress the normal ovulatory process.
The drug is made by the Richardson-
Merrell Company in the U.S.A. and its
effectiveness has been attested by Dr.
John Boutselis of Ohio State University.
Dr. Boutselis has announced details of
a trial involving 120 women, all of whom
participated in the trial for at least six
months. Each woman took a clomiphine
pill daily for five days beginning on the
fifth day of her menstrual cycle. On the
twelfth day she ovulated almost invari-
ably. Actually, three of the women be-
came pregnant, but Dr. Boutselis claims
that they either changed their minds about
having a baby and used the certainty of
ovulation to effect conception or ignored
his instructions. These required that the
women maintain continency for the space
of a novena surrounding the calculated
time of ovulation. If the pill was ineffec-
tive a much higher pregnancy rate would
have occurred under this discipline.
The period of continency can probably
be shortened considerably. By just how
much without appreciably increasing the
chance of conception must await the out-
come of further trials encompassing a
larger variety of ovulatory cycles. Also
required is more precise information con-
cerning the survival time of male sperm.
Clomiphine, which does not prevent but
merely appoints the time of ovulation,
may be chemically related to a drug which
ICI Pharmaceuticals in Britain has de-
veloped for agriculture. ICl’s drug is being
used to regulate the egg-laying period of
poultry and facilitate the breeding of
pigs by causing them to ovulate on pre-
determined dates. ICI has not disclosed
the formula of this chemical, which is
sold in the U.K. under the trade names
“PLANit” and “Almax.”
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries,
and Food has -declared that it does not
represent a health hazard to humans.
When given to pigs “Almax” induces
ovulation with a certainty of up to 90
percent and the farmer can accordingly
plan his production more precisely and
economically.
In other work in this field two Boston
physicians, Dr. Daniel J. McSweeney, of
Tufts-New England Medical Centre, and
Dr. Anthony J. Sbarra, of St. Margaret’s
Hospital, have devised a simple test by
which women can determine the stage of
their menstrual cycle. Women can take
a daily swab of cervical mucus and dab
it on a piece of treated test paper rather
like the w'ell-known litmus-paper test used
by chemists. The test paper is brown. As
ovulation approaches the paper becomes
lighter in color, but after ovulation has


occurred it becomes increasingly dark
again.
The researchers have used this test to
guide the rhythmical sexual activity of
150 women, none of whom has become
pregnant. A test kit for use in the home
by any normally sensible woman is now
being sold very cheaply in the Boston
area. Clearly, either of these developments
can be used to assist a woman who does
want a child to become pregnant.
OPERA HOUSE
Fact & Fancy
THE seating crisis at the Opera House
is not the only problem and prob-
ably not even the most difficult one
that Joem Utzon left behind for the
new architectural panel.
But it is the most important at least
in terms of whether the Opera House will
be useful as Sydney’s main concert hall.
Unless another 1000 or so seats can be
stuffed in (at more reasonable spacing
than the uncomfortable two feet 5 inches
Mr. Utzon had in mind), the hall’s use-
fulness for concerts will be severely
limited.
It is comfortable for the more extreme
Utzonites to see the current rash of state-
ments about incomplete plans and wrong
seating arrangements as a crude attempt
to damage Mr. Utzon’s reputation as an
architect and so justify the Government’s
position in the dispute. (Their view is
indicated on the opposite page by guest
cartoonist Shead.)
But, as in most matters of this sort, the
degree of emotional conviction is gener-
ally in inverse relation to the amount of
knowledge of the facts of the matter;
facts that it would be in the best interests
of the Minister for Public Works, Mr.
Davis Hughes, to release.
In any event, the greatest danger to Mr.
Utzon’s conception comes not from having
to amend things like seating plans that
were unsatisfactory; it is in trying to
translate into workable plans the ideas
that Mr. Utzon left behind; ideas that in
many instances had not been developed
much past sketches in the material he
left for his successors.
This is the case not merely in isolated
instances, as Mr. Utzon’s former assistant
seemed to be suggesting last week.
It is so with some of the most intricate
parts of the Opera House. If Mr. Utzon
did get further forward with them, he
has, as he warned, taken the secret with
him to avoid putting “dynamite into the
hands of children.” What he left instead
is political dynamite. The most serious of
these unsolved problems is in the glass
that is planned to hang from the roof.
The Minister for Public Works, Mr. Davis
Hughes, will probably be getting a de-
tailed report on the state of Mr. Utzon’s
drawings on this question within the next
fortnight.
There will, no doubt, be more sad news
about the Opera House before long.
MICHAEL BAUME
ARBITRATION
Vernon’s Revised Version
WHEN the employers’ representatives decided some weeks ago to present their case
before the Arbitration Commission with heavy flanking support from the Vernon
Report, they took a calculated risk. Unfortunately for them, events have shown
that there was rather more risk than calculation.
On the surface the move to use the
arguments and conclusions of the Vernon
Commission looked safe: The Commission,
despite the rather ungracious scorn of the
last Prime Minister, still commands a
gieat deal of respect, and it accepted the
general principles of the case the employ-
ers are presenting to the Arbitration Bench.
But the shadow that a minoiity of
employees lepresentatives feared took
flesh before their eyes over the past two
weeks. The. union advocate, Mr. Bob
Hawke, a highly skilled economist, took
the Vernon Report apart and. had the
Vernon Commissioners give evidence to
support the union case.
First there was Sir James Vernon him-
self. A chemist by training, a businessman
by vocation, he revealed an honesty and
competence in his answers to questions
that could only have done credit to his
now famous leport. Mi. Hawke had Sir
James concede that figures which have
become available since the Vernon Report
was compiled show a significant decline in
the wage share (64.4 percent to 61.1 per-
cent) of the Gross National Product over
c- t , .
the past ten years. Sir lames agreed that
■r .u c u j u -i ui i-
it these figures had been available earlier
the report that bears his name might
have changed its attitude to wage in-
creases. Mr. Hawke also had Sir James
agree that the Arbitration Commission
should take prices into account when
judging wages and that restrictive trade
practices were rather more important in
the economy than might be gathered from
the lack of attention given them in the
Vernon Report.
Last week Mr. Hawke led two other
members of the committee of economic
inquiry, Mr. Kenneth Myer and Professor
p jq Karmel, to agree substantially with
the gj r J ames ’ revised version. Professor
Karmel was also induced to cast doubt
on a ba;dc tenet of both the employers’
case and Mr. Justice Gallagher’s opinions
given in his judgments in 1964 and 1965:
That price rises and inflation are auto-
matic consequences of wage rises. Profes-
sor Karmel admitted that it was not pos-
sible to predict with precision the effect
any p ar ticular rise in wages had on prices.
The unions won a number of other
points, but these were the essential gains
a nd they must have a powerful impact
when Judges Wright, Gallagher, and
More bring down their decision around
the m ;ddle Q f July. Sending subpoenas to
the V ernon Commissioners may very well
prove to have been the decisive incident
of this long and com plex case. The section
of the Vernon Report dealing with wages
, , ~ , r -E ■ iL
has been robbed of any significant weight;
. . , ■ , r °
in the process, substantial areas of the em-
, , , ~ ,
P lo / case have suffered serious erosion;
and a large slice of the argument of Judge
Gallagher, .who decided in favor of the
employers in the two most recent wage
cases, has suffered severe bruising,
As THE BULLETIN predicted much
earlier in the year: this looks like a year
for the workers.
QUEENSLAND
Back to Stalemate
AFTER a quiet, uneventful election Queensland politics have settled back into
stalemate. The Liberal Party lost a seat to the ALP and won one from it.
And although it would not affect the position of the Government vis-a-vis the
opposition, the Liberal Party won another seat from the Country Party.
With characteristic slowness, preferences
were still to be distributed last weekend.
But it seemed unlikely that there would
be much change in Mr. Nicklin’s coalition
lead of 16 seats.
Even the vigorous campaigning of the
Federal Deputy Opposition Leader, Mr.
Gough Whitlam, did not seem to have any
observable impact on the election results.
Between the May Day weekend and the
elections some four weeks later Mr. Whit-
lam spent 22 days in Queensland address-
ing meetings from Toowomba to Cairns.
He spoke to four meetings in as many
hours the day before the elections standing
in the middle of main street. But unlike
his efforts in Dawson it all seemed in vain.
While almost every Australian election,
Federal or State, finds three-quarters of
the seats as safe as their occupants could
decently hope, four or five changes out
of one hundred and fifty-six possibles at
the last two elections is a bit much. Why
should Queensland politics, or Queensland
voters, be frozen in their present postures?
Part of the answer lies in the distribution
of electorates which preceded the 1960
poll. Things were played so safely that
quite massive swings are required before
very many seats would change hands.
Another part of the answer lies in
the size of Queensland electorates, which
are small by Victorian or New South
Wales standards 8000 to 10,000 voters
in most country electorates, 10,000 to
15,000 in most metropolitan and pro-
vincial city electorates. Thus the sitting
member can make a definite impression on
the electorate and, although surveys
suggest that very few members could be
named by half their electors, both the
1963 and 1966 elections have shown a


steady drift of votes in favor of sitting
members whatever their party.
Finally, a fair number of voters are pre-
pared to choose different parties at
different levels of government. This is
particularly evident in Brisbane, where,
in 1964, Lord Mayor Clem Jones swept
a number of Labor aldermen into ordin-
arily blue-ribbon Liberal seats on his
dynamic coat-tails and can probably
keep them there so long as he cares to
run. The ALP hoped that the big swing
to municipal Labor as big as Dawson
and spread evenly throughout the metro-
politan area would carry those same
electorates at the State election. (In Bris-
bane, aldermanic wards and State elector-
ates are identical.) However, there was
not the slightest sign of this, and it appears
that voters who recognised what Clem
Jones had done for sewers were unpre-
pared to let Jack Duggan try to do it
for education.
Similarly, in north and central Queens-
land disenchantment with the Federal
Liberal-Country Government, first evi-
denced in 1961, confirmed at the two
subsequent Federal elections, and rammed
home in Dawson last February did not
extend to Mr. Nicklin and his new
running-mate, Mr. Chalk. Labor hoped to
pick up two State country seats, Mirani
and Whitsunday, which form part of
Dawson, but although there was a moder-
ate swing there, and in the Labor-held
provincial city seat of Mackay, it measured
about 5 percent against Dawson’s 14 per-
cent.
Again, it was the sugar-producing part
of Dawson which showed this sort of
swing; the dairying areas which had moved
almost as strongly toward the ALP, in
February stayed firm, heartened no doubt
by Mr. Nicklin’s promise of another mil-
lion or so subsidy. Another dairying seat,
Warwick, showed a tremendous recovery
by the Country Party from a 1963 by-
election slump, and it would appear that
the rumblings of rank-and-file dairymen
stopped well short of voting for the Labor
Party, whose “stand-and-deliver” legisla-
tion invariably gets a mention when
Country Party politicians mount the hust-
ings.
Even the three-cornered contests in
which Country and Liberal candidates
lambasted each other as much as Labor
failed to stir local electors. Two govern-
ment candidates failed to capture any
more votes than one, but neither did the
obvious disunity within the coalition drive
voters away.
Admittedly, the marginal Liberal seat of
Toowoomba East was lost to Peter Wood,
of the ALP, but then the sitting MLA,
former mayor, and successful businessman
“Curly” Anderson had retired, and lost
voters might merely represent his personal
vote. The unsuccessful Country Party can-
didate, Mayor McCafferty, who had been
induced to leave the ALP and stand for
the Country Party when Liberals began
their push on Country-held seats around
Brisbane, observed that the result should
cause Liberals some concern, for they had
been “literally massacred” with a vote
which fell from over 5000 to less than 2000.
His comment should be read with the
GUEST CARTOONIST SHEAD
N.S.W. Minister (or Works, Davis Hughes, as seen fay the Utzonitos.
statement of the Deputy Leader of the
Country Party, Jack Pizzey, that “Queens-
land people have rejected overwhelmingly
the Liberal Party’s idea of three-cornered
contests where sitting members are in-
volved,” which ended with the hope that
the last had been heard of three-cornered
contests against sitting members.
The Country Party can now point to
the fact that when the crunch came it was
the Liberals who lost a seat to the
Opposition, and that sitting Country
Party members in two of the three cases
soundly trounced their Liberal opponents.
The exceptional case was Albert, centred
on Southport, on the Gold Coast, where
the Liberals won only by endorsing a
former Independent who twice had come
close to picking up the seat under his own
power, and even then only with the back-
ing of ALP preferences. Had the
Country Party chosen to nominate in
Bowen as another reprisal, the sitting
Liberal minister, Dr. Delamothe, could
have been knocked off by his Labor
opponent, and the possibility remains.
Later this year the Liberals will have
to decide whether they wish to try for
McPherson, Sir Arthur Fadden’s old
Federal electorate, now held by the Min-
ister for Territories, C. E. Barnes.
McPherson is so safe thstt there is no
possibility of it going Labor, and it con-
tains three State electorates in which the
Liberals ran three-cornered contests plus
the outer working-class suburb of Inala,
which contains some Liberals but very
few natural Country Party voters. One
early estimate suggests the Liberals
could count on at least 40 percent of the
Government vote in any attempt to un-
seat Mr. Barnes, and with a good candi-
date could press him very hard.
However, the Country Party holds two
hostages against such a move. The Min-
ister for Civil Aviation, Mr. Swartz, holds
Darling Downs for the Liberals, although
the great majority of its voters back the
Country Party at State elections. The
results in Toowoomba East indicate that
the majority of government voters in
Toowoomba would probably go Country
Party if the opportunity were provided.
Secondly, the Postmaster-General, Mr.
Hulme, sits for Petrie, a predominantly
metropolitan electorate which spreads
over the city boundary into the Red-
cliffe peninsula, an area where the two
sitting Country Party MLAs have just
beaten off Liberal attacks.
One of them, the State Speaker, Dave
Nicholson, had already warned that three-
cornered contests could lead to a reprisal
against Mr. Hulme, and, although the
Nicklin-Pizzey leadership favors turning
the other cheek for a while longer, any
lunge for McPherson could be countered
in Petrie.
It is most unlikely that the Country
Party could win Petrie, but a bitter cam-
paign could help the ALP’s Reg O’Brien
regain the seat he held 1961-63, not least
because it would probably emphasise one
of Mr. O’Brien’s strongest cards, which
had already helped him in 1961 Mr.
Hulme’s failure to cultivate the electorate.
Queenslanders do like to see their member
going about his job.
DON OXLEY


TWO WAYS TO
LIVE WITH ASIA
1. A Ministry of Aid
BRIAN BUCKLEY
ONE particular nightmare I suffer shows
scenes of an affluent industrialised
world in which there is no market-
ing competition between producers, but
a united effort by them to keep on sell-
ing past the point when all ordinary con-
sumer needs have been fully satisfied.
This world is choked with hoardings like:
“Eat More Food,” “Drink More Liquids,”
“Drive More Cars,” “Have More Houses,”
and “Eating Is The Most Permanent
Pleasure,” “You Can Only Drive One Car
At A Time, But You Can Own Plenty,”
“Having Clothes You’ll Never Wear Is
Fun:”
Already the motor industry in the
U.S.A. is geared to the demands of a two-
car family and the advertising arm of the
Australian motor industry claims that the
same will be the case here in a few years.
In housing the American market is being
stimulated to desire three units: City,
country, and beach. Any man with less
than ten suits is required to feel a sloppy
dresser. A refrigerator which is not cram-
med with enough protein—rich food to last
the family for a month is a sign that Father
is a failure in life, and Mother an irre-
sponsible housekeeper.
But why go on letting that Puritan man,
who lurks inside all of us born before VE
Day, parade his guilty catalogue? There is
no crime in affluence or sin in abundance;
except, of course, if the affluence and
abundance are the result of impoverishing
others and are maintained without con-
cern for the poverty of others.
It is a sometimes hidden, sometimes
open, presupposition of those who demand
greater Western aid for industrially under-
developed nations that the West came into
its fortune by exploitation of the resources
of Asia, Africa, and South America. Some-
times it is further argued that the West’s
continuing and increasing affluence is still
maintained basically at the expense of the
poorer nations. But, despite the emotion-
alism of men like Lenin and Hobson,
Nkrumah and Sukarno, the weight of evid-
ence does not support their conclusions.
Enclosure, the invention of the steam
engine, and the spread of the Calvinist
ethic were all much more important in the
development of the technological West than
was the possession and exploitation of
colonies.
But if arguments from economic injustice
are not substantial, the case for massive
Western assistance to countries beset by
malnutrition, disease, and illiteracy is still
overwhelming. No man whose vocabularly
includes the words “human,” “brother,”
“love.” or “charity” can fail to admit the
legitimacy of the demands which the needs
of poorer nations make on those with
abundance of goods and skills. Nor can
many of us pretend that our national and
personal responses to these .needs is any-
thing other than disgraceful. The fact that
debate still romps about the question of
whether we can manage to give one per-
cent of our national income in foreign
aid is the clinching example of our dis-
grace.
But, sins against charity admitted, the
question to be asked is: Do most forms of
aid to underdeveloped countries achieve
the results expected? There is a strong
case for arguing that the bulk of foreign
aid is not effective and may even be harm-
ful. The case is perhaps best put by P. T.
Baiter, Professor of Economics (with
special reference to underdeveloped coun-
tries and economic development), at the
University of London. Professor Bauer is
one of the chief economic advisers to the
Wilson Government.
At present Western foreign aid, in the
form of inter-Govemmental grants and
heavily subsided grants to relatively poor
countries is running at an annual rate of
about £2500 million sterling. Professor
Bauer argues that this large-scale indefinite
“mainstream” foreign aid does not usually
serve to bring about an appreciable rise in
living standards or promote economic de-
velopment in underdeveloped countries.
Bauer’s major thesis is that material
progress depends primarily on the develop-
ment of suitable human qualities, attitudes,
and social institutions, and not on the in-
flow of external grants of money. “The
ineffectiveness of foreign aid as an instru-
ment for development derives ultimately
from its inability to affect these human
factors substantially, at least in a favorable
direction.” Japan, Russia, Hong Kong r
and Malaysia are all countries which have
advanced in recent decades without large-
scale foreign aid, whereas India, Burma,.
Ceylon, Indonesia, the United Arab Re-
public, and Ghana, to name some, are
countries which have received massive
capital aid but have made little or no
economic advance.
In some cases massive capital assistance
has had the clear effect of pauperising the
recipient country. “The recent economic
history of India can be summed up as a
progression from poverty to pauperisation.”
This pauperisation, dependence for sur-
vival on hand-outs, is much more likely
when the hand-outs are indiscriminate, or
noticed to the efforts of the receiving coun-
try to take other necessary economic and
social steps.
Further, because foreign aid represents
the import of resources not generated with-
in the receiving economy such aid can
disturb the balance of skills and resources
in the receiving country without providing
compensatory benefits. An example is the
rapid expansion of tertiary and secondary
education by the use of unearned aid re-
sources (without a corresponding growth
in the economy), an expression which
creates large-scale unemployment among
the new graduates whose skills the econ-
omy is not sufficiently advanced to de-
mand. This situation is cruelly common
in Africa.
Another of the serious problems in the
granting of monetary aid is that it is not
received by people but by Governments,
and consequently leads to an enlargement
of an often inefficient (in Western terms)
bureaucracy, an increase of interference
with the private sectors of the dependent
economy (the sector which is most likely
to generate the skill and human attitudes
without which an economic “take-off” is
not possible), and the compulsive draught-
ing of large-scale development plans which
commonly camouflage the real problems of
the economy and make it ever more reliant
on outside financial bolstering.
With the exception of the Soviet Union
no developed nation has made its “take-
off” because of development planning, and
even in the Soviet Union the case for
the efficacy of centrally directed de-
velopment planning is a mixed one in
economic terms and indefensible in human


\
/
X
7
/
0
MHS
In the time it took this giri to seal 7,500 slide-boxes ...this 3M Brand automatic taping machine seals 30,000.
You get more than tape from 3M
Kodak got T.C.E.*
*(Tape Customer Engineering Service it’s free )
Ask Kodak. 3M dreamed up an automatic slidebox sealing machine for
them. Four times faster than a hand-box sealer - takes different size
boxes in its stride - gets the slides mailed the day they are processed.
That solved Kodak’s problem. What’s yours? Drop it in the lap of
T.C.E. - via your 3M Salesman or “Scotch” Brand Tape Distributor.
Scotch
BRAND
INDUSTRIAL TAPES
INDUSTRIAL TAPES DIVISION
miNNESOTA [TUNING AND [TIANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD
Sydney 43.0455; Melbourne 61.3841; Adelaide 51.5971 ; Brisbane 5.4131;
Perth 28.4651 ; Hobart 3.3104; Canberra 4.0791; Auckland 295.109:
3m
3M3/2346/66


y
n
Is
As long as your arm!
The list of companies that
own the Beechcraft King
Air for executive transport.
It goes on and on and on.
The pressurized, turbo-prop King
Air has seating for 7 to 10 people. It
cruises for more than 1,500 miles.
Non-stop. There’s still room on the
list for your name.
So muscle in.
aD
For a test flight get in touch with
HAWKER DE HAVILLAND
AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
sdg
Sole Beechcraft Distributors for Australia & New Guinea.
Located at: Bankstown Aerodrome, N.S.W. Parafield
Aerodrome, S.A. Archerfield Aerodrome, Q'ld. Janda-
kot Aerodrome, W.A. & Civil Flying Services Pty. Ltd.,
Moorabbin, Vic. Territory Airlines Ltd., Goroka, N.G.
593/66R
terms. Yet foreign aid encourages, and in
some cases demands, the recipient nation
to commit itself to the most comprehen-
sive and ambitious central development
planning; planning that pretends massive
outside aid will inevitably bring rapid
advance and that often ignores the more
crucial human factors which really deter-
mine the possibility of rapid economic
growth.
In this context it is important to note
that the recovery of the economies of
Western Europe after World War II was
carried out by Marshall Aid because, al-
though Europe was deficient in capital re-
sources, in food and raw materials, it had
the required human attitudes and re-
sources: the attitudes, motivations, and
institutions favorable to development. The
economy of Western Europe had to be re-
stored rather than developed. But if a
poor country is without these necessary
human attitudes and institutions no amount
of foreign aid will necessarily lead to de-
velopment.
These arguments are not directed to the
conclusion that we should diminish our aid,
but that we must not believe that aid
automatically leads to economic develop-
ment: whilst expanding our meagre re-
sources of generosity, we must also be more
intelligent and realistic.
The Australian Government claims that,
since 1945, it has spent close to $lOOO
million on external aid, which is now run-
ning at .6 percent of our annual National
Income. This figure ranks us fifth behind
the U.S.A., France, Britain, and Belgium
on a per capita basis.
GOVERNMENT pamphlet issued by
the Ministry of External Affairs also
claims proudly that “Australia is the only
one of the major donors giving all its
bilateral aid in the form of grants. Most
other countries give a substantial propor-
tion of their aid in loans on which interest
and capital repayment must be made. Aus-
tralia asks for no repayment. So no
burdens are imposed on the foreign ex-
change holdings of the country receiving
aid.”
Most of this Government aid goes to
New Guinea and Papua. Of the $121,000,-
000 of external aid to be distributed in
1965-66 over 60 percent is to be given
to these trust areas where Australia is in
a unique position to direct how it is spent.
Less than 20 percent of our aid goes to
bilateral programs, mostly under the
Colombo Plan, and also under the
SEATO aid program, Commonwealth
co-operation in education, the special
Commonwealth African Assistance Plan,
the Australian South Pacific Technical
Assistance Program, the Foreign Exchange
Operations Fund in Laos, the Indus Basin
Development Fund, and special grants for
disaster and famine relief. In 1965, for
example, the Australian Government gave
more than $7 million of wheat to India.
Further Australian Government aid is
given under multilateral programs such as
the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, the International Fin-
ance Corporation, the International De-
velopment Association, the Asian Develop-
ment Bank and special United Nations
economic programs for “developing coun-
tries.” Australia also supplies defence sup-
port aid to Vietnam, Malaysia, and India.
Perhaps we can take some cheer from
the fact that apart from the possible ex-
ception of Papua and New Guinea no
nation is going to be “pauperised” by Aus-
tralian aid. The more important issues
concern how effective has our aid been
and how can we both increase the extent
and effectiveness of future aid.
These issues raise an important admini-
strative consideration: Are we likely to
get the best results from present and future
foreign aid administered by the Depart-
ments of Territories and External Affairs?
The complex economic and social factors
involved need more than the skills of ter-
ritorial administration and diplomacy and
bear heavily in support of the establish-
ment of a Ministry of Aid, staffed by
economists, social workers, educationists,
agricultural, health, and industrial advisers
who can judge not the diplomatic value
of our foreign aid so much as its worth
in terms of the possible development of
the recipient countries.
A Federal Department of Foreign Aid
would also have two other advantages:
1. It would be a pressure group inside
the machinery of Government operating
continually to increase our aid contri-
bution;
2. It would be better able to conduct
public appeals to the generosity of the
nation both in terms of the possibility
of increasing taxation for the purpose
of aid and for encouraging non-Gov-
ernment individual and group contri-
butions.
The latter are growing in importance,,
chief among them being the Australian
Volunteers Abroad scheme organised by
the Overseas Service Bureau, the Com-
munity Aid Abroad scheme, the Freedom
from Hunger Campaign, and the Volun-
teer Graduate Scheme.
While these voluntary bodies make the
best judgments they can, and get some
assistance from academic economists, they
cannot afford to employ full-time develop-
mental economists even if these were
available. Without the establishment of a
Ministry of Aid it is unlikely that de-
velopmental economists of the kind re-
quired will ever be available. There is
no demand for them in Australian uni-
versities; the Departments of External
Affairs and Territories are necessarily con-
cerned first with diplomacy and then
administration.
The picture, then, is complex and para-
doxical. Private aid for specific projects
is likely to be beneficial but is only a
small sod in a large field. Aid should on
all grounds of justice and charity be in-
creased tenfold. But on the large scale, in
the form of Government to Government
grants, there is strong evidence that much
of it is in the long term useless and even
harmful. The successful application of
mainstream and other forms of aid de-
mands economists and other kinds of
experts who are not readily available
and supervision which may offend the
recipient Government.
If we need a Department of Customs,
of the Navy, of Posts and Telegraphs, we
now surely need a Ministry of Foreign
Aid.


mm
<I ; 111 ME$
aiirM& •SMv-i't/i ".BaP
ISM;
STSS. 'V}3 —I
aJfaiff
nil*??*
ifjSSn-tJ IK
iif'ili'.l
li ; .V\Si.'.it*'l |, ' |l ' :
■&&«!*»«!*
7 rr^My^W
••
1%/ ■«
■■•vmv.
m.
Li
Cali
h
72
I
swm
;VfW
;^j[y
IHUGH AS THEY COME
TUVDIA
Forklifts 2200 lbs. to 8.000 lbs. capacities
Toyota Fork Lift Trucks! Tough, dependable
fork lifts capable of outstanding performance
over a variety of light to heavy moving opera-
tions. Fast-moving models with smaller turning
circles, they enable one operator to manoeuvre
the biggest loads with increased skill and
precision. Light and simple to steer. Extremely
stable, too, with low centres of gravity. Engines
—sturdy, reliable, matched carefully to each
vehicle’s capacity to ensure big economy with
maximum effective use of the high torque.
Tough as they come—Toyota Fork Lift Trucks!
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LIMITED, SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS
AND DISTRIBUTORS TOYOTA TRUCKS AND FORKLIFTS
DISTRIBUTED BY: BRISBANE (SOUTH): Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., Tel.:
4.6271. TOWNSVILLE: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., Tel.: 6107. MACKAY:
Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., Tel.: 2752. SYDNEY: Thiess (Sales) Pty.
Limitea, Rosebery. Tel.: 67.3621. NEWCASTLE: R. W. Brown
& Sons Pty. Ltd., 73 Pacific Highway, Broadmeadow. Tel.:
61.4117. MELBOURNE: Emptor Pty. Ltd., Springvale. Tel.:
546.4100. ADELAIDE: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., Tel.: 23.2111. HOBART:
Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., Tel.: 3.3141. LAUNCESTON: Noyes Bros. Pty.
Ltd., Tel.: 2.1441. DARWIN: Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd., Tel.: 2.023.
FLR.RI.IO7R


sap
SI
«5
/
.v •
f'i\
k
ifeW
A-l
i
»
> V
At**
I
v.t
lisM
A*.
S 3!
w*
Of
r>\>>
r.<i
>53
2fi3
/,-
3%
•*v
. ->'•
'> LL\!
%* %
« ~ \
L rZ
JF.
S.' l't* ._\"
m
*
(A
*,dW
m*
U
ill
to
V '
ft
yr
/•/
&
it
'V
•Vv:
S?
k
mv
m
Wm
W
&
: :; i '«*\ , V-
W
»«•
\A
4*?*?
»7 V'tv» -.-•
$
&a
-wNV^.I
| ... N .
•“> i'-
•.‘•A-
ri % f.
o>v<>
*■:*
•■at;
'•vA‘r
Wi;
S*‘
Eg
*|v
V»*i
ill
;:0-*K
id*.
»n*
» «♦
*
HS
Jc?»
J> • *» *
W=
5*
w
•»
i-:x*:v.
■^==*l4^3;
ggv.-r-:
- *
5$
1 - _
n.’. •. ' p i“OA. v
IKING
ROUND
(OR A
NEW
EXPORT
The Australian businessman is far-seeing
when he sets out to explore one of the most
lucrative markets in the world to-day
South Africa.
Stable, prosperous South Africa imports
goods and services exceeding $2177 million
per year, including many millions from Aus-
tralian sources. South Africans enjoy a high
standard of living. They buy, and can pay for,
the same high quality goods we make here in
Australia. From buttons to beverages, from
fabrics to foodstuffs, South Africans are
already buying Australian-made goods, but
as yet we export only a fraction of our
potential.
That’s why more and more Australians are
taking in South Africa on their overseas
business trips. The additional air fare is very
small indeed. Aboard S.A.A., it's an over-
night flight to Johannesburg, from where
daily S.A.A. jet flights connect to a network
of European capitals and London.
Inter alia: South Africa is one of the world's top tourist
countries, too. Spare a few days to visit one of her magnificent
game reserves; don't miss Capetown and Durban; if you’ve
the time, explore Zululand, the Drakensberg Mountains, the
Kimberley diamond mines. Your travel agent will gladly make
all arrangements.
NEXT TRIP FLY VIA
SOUTH AFRICA
sdg
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
in association with
QANTAi
operate twice weekly services from Australia to South Africa.
SAAB7/FP


2. An Asian-Australian
Economic Community
PETER SAMUEL
COMMUNISM: the product of social
and economic inadequacy. This simple
and sentimental proposition was once
just a tool of gentle altruists wanting
their country to be less selfish, give more
economic aid, and seek international
understanding.
But as Vietnam has become a fiery
issue in the West, it has been used as a
weapon of political warfare by others
intent on undermining the application of
military counterforce to the power which
the followers of Mao attempt to get from
the barrels of guns. This distracts attention
from the search for constructive long-
term policies to promote economic and
social' improvement through international
co-operation.
In our own region we are moving into
a period when the opportunities for get-
ting things done are unprecedentedly
great. Japan, the great native power of the
area, after a decade of unmatched econo-
mic progress is at last looking outward
again and showing an interest in regional
development; the Americans have a stand-
ing offer of a billion dollars’ aid; regional
institutions like ECAFE and the Asian
Development Bank are beginning to really
function. Just as importantly the political
balance is swinging our way. Indonesia is
coming out of the lunacy of myth-making
and returning rapidly to the community
of sane nations. And the Chinese war-
mongering clique in Peking is torn by the
most serious infighting since the revolu-
tion, while the efforts of their heroes in
Vietnam are stalemated.
Of course, there are offsetting trends—
the “other confrontation” of Malaysia and
Singapore, and the recurrence of political
turmoil in South Vietnam —but these are
insignificant relatively. On balance the
prospects for South-East Asia are better
than ever.
Co-operation is especially important for
economic advance in the region because
of the small size of the countries con-
cerned. With so much talk of population
pressures, of “teeming Asians” we often
forget that outside the big four—'China,
India, Pakistan, and Indonesia —the under-
developed countries of Asia are relatively
small in population, smaller than the
countries of Europe, for instance, and the
average population is about the same as
Australia’s.
Although the phrase is rather over-
worked these days, it remains true that
the advantages of “economies of scale”
apply very strongly to a number of econo-
mic activities: to almost all heavy industry
and power production, to some light indus-
try, to much applied research work and
to specialised training. Aggregation of
national units simply makes these things
cheaper and more feasible and increases
the results from given savings efforts or
foreign assistance. Greater size will help
in another sense —in the marketing of the
region’s export products and in attracting
foreign investment.
For some illustrative detail we can look
at a classic industry—iron and steel. Here
there are very big economies up to a
million tons annual capacity and signifi-
cant ones beyond that (Port Kembla is a
two million-ton plant). At 1,000,000 tons
costs are about $7O a ton compared with
$B4 a ton from a 500,000-ton plant, $lOO
from a 250,000-ton plant, and $l6O from
a 30,000-ton plant.
With consumption of steel ranging from
200,000 tons annually in Thailand to only
about 400,000 tons each in the Philip-
pines and Indonesia, there is obviously no
sense in providing for present needs with
separate industries in each nation. United
Nations’ estimates of consumption for as
far ahead as 1975 suggest that even then
few countries will be using more than a
million tons each (about the output of the
BHP plant being constructed at Kwinana,
which some say could more economically
have been an extension of Port Kembla).
Similar economic arithmetic can be
produced for aluminium, fertilisers, paper-
making, and motor-car production, to name
just a few other industries. The policy
corollary is, of course, that both the dom-
estic efforts of individual nations and the
aid and foreign investment of richer
countries will be ineffectively used if in-
dustrialisation is pursued on a national
basis in South-East Asia. It must be on
a regional basis with the individual
national plans for industry co-ordinated so
that sensible specialisation can be devised
and the economies of scale realised. In
the process, the positioning of industry can
take into account the relative distribution
of natural resources and power so that
simple economies of location can also be
achieved.
Such “harmonisation of industrial de-
velopment,” as the jargon brands it, needs
to be accompanied by arrangements for
free trade in the products covered. But it
is important to see the way the logic
runs. Free trade by itself will be of little
help, because of the differing abilities of
the various countries to attract capital,
and their need to have industrial develop-
ment planned with some firmness.
Free trade arrangements can therefore
be an adjunct to regional planning rather
than a self-contained aspect of co-opera-
tion.
There are obvious objections which can
be made. First: that already some indus-
tries of uneconomic size have been estab-
lished in South-East Asian countries. The
answer to this. is that industrialisation is
hardly begun and most of the follies of
autarky are as yet only future possibilities.
Also it points up the need for quick fore-
stalling action. A second objection: that
it is only realistic to concede that each
country will want some sort of balance
in its industrial structure and will not be
prepared to forego some industries com-
pletely; most, for example, would want a
steel industry of their own as much for
reasons of prestige as anything. (Almost
all are already in the process of setting
up their own steel industry.) The answer
to this is that it is still possible to arrange
some useful harmonising. Thus Singapore’s
steelworks can continue to concentrate on
structural products, those of the Filipinos
can specialise in the production of sheet
steel, while Hong Kong can process scrap.
In other words, within broad industries
there is plenty of scope for specialisation,
which allows economies of scale to be
obtained while having a degree of balance
in geographical distribution.
Regional co-operation can also bring
great benefits with particular commodities.
At present India, Pakistan, Indonesia, and
Malaysia are trying to attain self-suffici-
ency in rice production, the success of
which would deprive Burma and Thai-
land and South Vietnam of valuable ex-
port earnings. At the same time Burma
and Thailand are attempting to gr6w all
their own jute, cutting away India and
Pakistan’s markets. Many of these policies
are inefficient and they could be avoided
by regional, rather than national, plan-
ning.
Since the region produces 90 percent of
the world’s natural rubber, there is obvious
scope for collective efforts at improving
productivity and lowering cqsts so that,
like our wool, their staple is not dis-
placed by synthetics. Malaysia’s rubber
trees reportedly yield, on average, three
times the amount of Indonesian trees, so
there is plenty of opportunity for im-
provement through the co-operative appli-
cation of research. This applies in many
other areas, too: in the administration of
agricultural extension programs, develop-
ment of cheap birth-control techniques,
the breeding of better rice seeds, and more
appropriate cattle.
And out of such individually pedantic
efforts to increase the extent of economic
unity is likely to grow the basis for
greater general political unity. Already
there is some evidence that the small
achievements in the field of economic co-
operation have paid dividends in better
diplomatic relations. In his recent book,
“Dimensions of Conflict in South-East
Asia,” American scholar Bernard Gordon
says quite emphatically that the existence
of the Association of South-East Asian
States has had significant conciliatory
effects on relations between member
States. Based on interviews with regional
leaders, Gordon concludes that, but for a
joint desire to keep ASA alive, relations
between Malaysia and the Philippines
would have deteriorated far more.
Progress in economic co-operation brings
quick and tangible benefits and lays the
ground for more general unity. In some
ways this will be harder to attain in South-
East Asia than it has been in Europe. As
a generalisation it is probably true that
the countries of our region are more prone
to involvement in petty squabling based on
personal antagonism between leaders,
claims to national relics and small bits of
useless land and the like.
European countries seeking unity have


Steelbilt makes smart and
attractive cupboards for
hats and coats, stationery,
office records, books,parts,
papers, parcels ... and for
fdgb
*
EXECUTIVE CUPBOARD
SLIDING DOOR CUPBOARD
SECURITY CUPBOARD
r
WARDROBE CUPBOARD
EXECUTIVE LOCKER
If you think we’ve covered it all in the headline, you’re
wrong. Actually there is no end to the number of things
Steelbilt Cupboards hold so safe and sound—all those
things, personal and business, that necessarily accumu-
late in the office. Large cupboards, smaller cupboards,
some with sliding doors, some even with a built-in
filing drawer—all dustproof, vermin-proof, neat, hand-
some, secure. Need a cupboard? A ’phone call to
Steelbilt will get action.
*
TEELBILT
A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE •TOWNSVILLE •HOBART
SB3.FP


"Come, let me know what it is that
makes a Scotchman happy!"
(Samuel Johnson)
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
the advantage of a political sophistication
which keeps down these sorts of petty dif-
ferences and prevents them from becom-
ing an obstacle to co-operation. Against
this, however, the economic complexity
and the range of vested political interests
make for very real obstacles which do not
get in the way of co-operation in the de-
veloping societies. President de Gaulle has
to deal with inefficient farmers far more
vocal and better organised than those of
the Tunku. And he has industrialists with
much to lose from economic integration
while the Tunku is in the process of try-
ing to get some industrialists.
So there are some reasons to believe
that moves toward unity may in fact be
easier in South-East Asia than they were
in Europe. But just how to get things
moving is, of course, the great question,
and I can only sketchily hint at an answer.
Institutions are the essential machinery
for the continued manufacture of com-
plex political arrangements. It is not
enough for men of goodwill to get together
and chat, as the Minister for External
Affairs, Mr. P. Hasluck, will do with
other foreign ministers in Seoul this week.
Institutions are, of course, in existence
as the plethora of acronyms makes clear
ASA, MAPHILINDO, ECAFE, SEA-
FET. SEAFET never got off the ground,
but all the others could be developed.
One visionary Pacific Confederation of
Mr. B. A. Santamaria, stretching from
India to Japan and catering for most
of the countries in between, seems to me
too much to try as an immediate
proposition. It may be better to work
with existing institutions, trying to deepen
and extend their activities.
ECAFE and its associate, the Asian
Development Bank, which cover all the
non-Communist countries in the region,
are already engaged in very valuable co-
operative and unifying activities. But
there is scope for more intensive action
in smaller groupings with closer ties and
interests. The so-called Association of
South-East Asian States, or ASA, at
present composed only of Malaysia, the
Philippines, and Thailand, is in the pro-
cess of being revived after the setbacks
caused by confrontation. It could per-
haps be encouraged to work intensively at
co-operation in economic and political
matters, while gradually reaching out to
take in other neighboring nations with
similar interests. Indonesia is an obvious
candidate after it has settled down, recov-
ering from the disastrous years of Sukarno-
PKI rule. Singapore should be in ASA
because of her affinity to Malaysia, and
Laos because of her affinity with Thailand,
although full participation would obviously
depend on the defeat of the Pathet Lao
insurgency. The same would apply to
South Vietnam’s participation.
Eventually the organisation might
expand geographically to take in three
other small countries with similar economic
problems Taiwan and Hong Kong in
the east and Ceylon in the west. At
some time it might be widened ideologic-
ally with invitations to the neutrals, Burma
and Cambodia. (And eventually to a
North Vietnam-made Titoist by a con-
vincing defeat of its present Maoist efforts?)
ASA would have good reasons for keep-
ing bigger and richer powers out of
direct membership. India has an immense
internal market and has no compelling
need for the sort of close economic col-
laboration which South-East Asia can
benefit from. And Pakistan’s future lies
mostly in a reconciliation with India. So
possibly does South Korea’s future lie in
closer ties with Japan. Japan itself and Aus-
tralia as rich industrial countries on the
periphery of the region would also be
better not full members. Our interests
differ too much to recommend full par-
ticipation.
What we should be trying to do jointly
with the Japanese is to help things along
from the outside. Most of the progress
will have to be internally generated, but
there is a way in which we might be able
to inject some catalytic elements. A
joint Australian-Japanese offer of a big
mix of aid, trade, and investment all con-
ditional on satisfactory progress toward
building regional institutions and regional
co-operation may be the best hope. We
must remember that the Americans have
a standing offer of $lOOO million aid if
others will move, and so we can count on
major outside assistance.
Essential Institutions
an offer by Australia would, of
course, call for radical readjustments
in the local scene. If it was to have any
catalytic effect, an offer of this sort would
have to involve new aid programs of the
order of $5O million annually. This could
be done partly by reducing the burden of
New Guinea development aid, interna-
tionalising the effort there, and partly
through higher taxation. Trade preferences
would have to go far beyond the trivial
gesture we made in the recent set of heavily
quotaed preferences to “less developed
countries” generally. We would have to be
prepared to prune back some of our
absurdly over-protected industries to give
substantial markets to industrial producers
in the region. Investment by Australian
firms would have to be encouraged with
incentives like tax concessions.
By ourselves we could not hope to in-
fluence general regional co-operation
greatly, though there is no reason why, as
Harvey Stockwin suggested (8., May 28),
we should not help bring Singapore and
Malaysia together by making a big aid-
trade-investment offer, conditional, of
course, on an end to the causeway con-
frontation. With the Japanese, we might
be able to help in bigger things. But
first we must get together with the Japan-
ese diplomatically, and here our Govern-
ment has so far failed deplorably. This
was most recently highlighted in our non-
participation in the first'South-East Asian
Ministerial Conference on Economic De-
velopment, held in Tokyo in early April.
According to reports in the “Far Eastern
Economic Review,” it was highly success-
ful and has set in train a number of major
co-operative efforts from which we will
be left out unless we move now.
We should be deeply involved in such
regional activities because they are good
in themselves in devising a network of
arrangements for improving the lot of
fellow men in neighboring countries. There
is a secondary point to be made in return-
ing to the proposition with which I opened
the article. Some people do choose Com-
munism because of frustration with existing
social and economic prospects, and,
although it has not happened yet, some
societies may some time freely choose
Communism as an alternative of despair.
The Japanese often display distressingly
Cairnsian traits in their political thinking,
and this makes us sceptical about the pos-
sibilities for constructive political relation-
ships. But there are signs also of great
realism in Japan which bode well for co-
operative efforts. Take this segment of
the “Far Eastern Economic Review’s” re-
port on the Tokyo talks: “There was no
denying that the shadow of China fell
across the talks. A Gaimusho (Foreign
Office) official said: ‘The Tokyo confer-
ence is expected to contribute in the long
run to preventing China’s infiltration into
South-East Asia . . .’ Gaimusho officials
feel that it will become imperative for
Japan to create a competitive co-existence
with China to prevent political friction in
the area . . .”


ONE MORE
WEEK
Skilled Job
OFFERED for relaxation while Fellows
of the Royal Australian College of Sur-
geons were having their 39th congress in
Perth last week the play “A Severed
Head.”
Ceremony
ENTERTAINER Barry Humphries re-
turns to England this week after a tour
so long and successful that, he says, re-
cently people have begun to look at him
and say, “You still here?” But right to the
end Humphries was busy oiling the pub-
licity machine.
Last week he gave a farewell lunch to
journalist friends, at which he announced
that, after considerable research, he had
discovered the last “Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills” sign in Melbourne. It. was on
the side of a building in a lane just off
Lonsdale Street.
Members of the gathering took a taxi
to the Dr. Morse sign. It was a good sign,
not in mint condition but still clearly
legible. Humphries produced a bottle of
champagne with glasses on a silver tray.
He poured the wine and the assembly
toasted “Dr. Morse.” Then they smashed
their glasses against the wall, propped the
bottle against the wall, and departed.
Author, Author
THE BRITISH MAGAZINE “The
Author” has warned young writers against
parting with their original manuscripts to
some American universities trying to build
up collections on the cheap. One example
of the lengths to which the universities
will go is the experience of Collins, which
published a new edition of “The Imitation
of Christ.” They then were asked to re-
direct a begging letter asking for the
original manuscript. The envelope was ad-
dressed to T. A. Kempis, Esq.
Although the cutthroat competition
among American university students for
thesis subjects means that what seems a
surprising number of students choose Aus-
tralian writers, so far there is no great call
for manuscripts. The Mitchell, in Sydney,
feels it has most of what it wants and says
it has little interest in manuscripts until
the author is dead.
Predictable
THE GROUP THEATRE in Sydney, a
tangential offshoot of “Oz” magazine, has
just finished doing “The Sport of My
Mad Mother,” and announces its future
plans as including a production of
“Saved,” the play which London’s Royal
Court had a good deal of trouble about
a few months ago, a pop concert with a
New York-style “happening” and a pro-
duction of “Hamlet.” Ah, the utter pre-
dictability of youth!
New Age
THE MELBOURNE “AGE” is the latest,
and the last, of the influential Australian
dailies to switch its attitude in favor of
State Aid for church schools. The “SMH”
did so some months ago, declaring boldly
and unequivocally that times had changed,
and that a new attitude was called for.
The “Age” was rather more timid. Its
editorial last Thursday did not exactly
announce a change of attitude; but none-
theless there it was in grey and white for
all to see:
“The overriding argument, now that
the crisis in education is demanding bold
and massive solutions, is that all schools
need public support in some form or an-
other because they must have facilities
and more teachers and there are not
enough of them.”
And again: “If the deplorable state of
Australian education demands solid com-
munity backing for all schools, then poli-
tical parties should face up to the prob-
lem, and be prepared to apply aid where
it is most needed in the interests of the
people and the nation.”
This change of heart is all the more
remarkable, considering that only six
months ago the “Age” ended up an edi-
torial on private schools and the . public
purse with these words: “Many State
schools are already under-staffed, over-
crowded, short of books, buildings, and
equipment. The real danger is that if
State Aid is increased, these deficiencies
will multiply.”
Second or Third Thoughts
“WHAT I HAVE SEEN today of cotton-
growing in the Namoi is making me think
again about our policy of growing cotton
in the Ord River area. What we have got
to think about now is whether it is econ-
omic to continue to subsidise the north.”
Minister for the Interior, Mr. Anthony,
at Narrabri, N.S.W., on April 15, 1966.
“One aspect that needs clearing up in
the minds of the Ord farmers is the feel-
ing that the Commonwealth Government
is drawing a comparison between the Ord
Cotton Scheme and the Namoi, in New
South Wales.” Minister for the Interior,
Mr. Anthony, at Kununurra, Ord River,
May 31, 1966.
Rum Affair
IT IS GOOD to be able to report that,
despite the growing sophistication of
Queenslanders, they still have a capacity
for traditional enjoyments. To launch a
new brand a firm of distributors recently
invited a selected group of connoisseurs
to a rum tasting. It apparently met with
their approval, since about 30 of them
managed to taste five gallons during the
evening.
Accommodating
WITH WEDDINGS being conducted
underwater, in bikinis or with the bride
in black and the bridegroom in white,
Perth can offer something different again
a church wedding for atheists with no
reference in the service to God.
One of two couples given an atheist
wedding recently chose Trinity Congrega-
tional Church because they liked the look
of it and felt a registry-office wedding
wasn’t quite enough. The Rev. S. J. Hen-
shall said he appreciated their honesty
and felt their desire for a church wedding
indicated an underlying religious attitude
which had not been integrated into their
beliefs.
The other couple is Dutch-born and
had hoped for the equivalent of a Dutch
civil wedding which an Australian registry-
office does not measure up to. The Rev.
A. W. Morris, a Church of Christ, mar-
ried them.
Another Boyd
AT THE HUNGRY HORSE GAL-
LERY, Sydney, where an opening night
can pack an alarming number of emin-
ent people into two rooms and a bal-
cony, the following morning brings no
respite. On the day after Guy Boyd’s
first one-man exhibition in Sydney of
female bodies, human and divine, oxy-
dised in silver, it looked as if the party
was still going on.
After an initial sighting, Mr. Boyd dis-
appeared. “I think he’s gone across the
road for a pie,” said a girl bearing claret
and cheese, and it wasn’t until some
minutes later that he reappeared, a shy,
fair man looking much more overwhelmed
by it all than one would expect from a
member of the Boyd family father
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
The atmosphere was friendly.
Australian High Commissioner,
Sir Alex Downer, after seeing the
British Prime Minister, Harold Wilson.
The battle for freedom of speech for
the ordinary priest in the Roman
Catholic Church has scarcely begun.
Catholic Worker.
I always wanted to hear what every
Cabinet minister had to say.
Sir Robert Menzies.
The opportunity to establish a lasting
bond of friendship with Indonesia must
not be muffed a second time.
Gough Whitlam.
People should never discuss the possi-
bility of remarriage with a widow dur-
ing her bereavement period.
Professor D. Maddison.
As you have just heard that was not
the London news. We accidentally picked
up Voice of America on the moon
landing.
ABC anhouncer.
We live quietly these days.
Mrs. Khrushchev.
Once it’s been established, which looks
probable now that Mr. Birute Gastas
is Mrs. Korotki, our work is done.
—Spokesman for Department of Labor
and National Service.
De Gaulle is not a genius. He’s just a
political cosmonaut continually in orbit.
Herr Josef Strauss.
This is the beginning of the end of
confrontation.
—lndonesian Foreign Minister Adam Malik.


Merric a potter and sculptor and elder
brothers Arthur and David both dis-
tinguished painters.
At 43, Guy Boyd bears no resentment
to the large chunk of his life spent as
Martin Boyd, mass-producer of the ash-
trays, ramekins, vases, and soup bowls
that turned up in everyone’s living-room
in the ’sos. “I’ve got five children, you
see,” he said, fingering 485 dollars’ worth
of Bather Standing which two of his
daughters stood for. “They’re not exactly
grown up and off my hands the
youngest is only two but this will bring
enough to put them through school. State
schools, of course. I don’t believe in pri-
vate schools, fortunately.”
The sculpture and the income from the
Martin Boyd premises at Ryde (the busi-
ness was sold two years ago) are now
keeping Boyd, his wife, Phyllis, and the
five children afloat. “I’m rather glad about
the four daughters,” Boyd said, return-
ing to Bather Standing. “I got the idea
when I saw a girl on the beach back
home at Brighton standing just like that
with one hip angled out, but I couldn’t
very well go up and ask her to pose, so I
asked my daughters. They weren’t quite
as well developed, of course, but it was
the actual stance that mattered. You can
easily fill out with a bit of wax.”
The African dancers, sketched from the
wings during their visit to Sydney last
year, had been more obliging, and so had
the Degas-style ballerinas rehearsing at
the barre in woollen stockings. Yes, said
Boyd, brightening, there was an interest-
ing contrast in the hip measurements, and
he’d deliberately made the African girl’s
head smaller so it wouldn t detract from
the length and fluidity of the body. There
can be too much personality in a face.
You miss all this,” he said, patting an
African dancer’s torso.
One dancer weighed several hundred
pounds and stood over three feet. How was
it done? Mr. Boyd explained that it had
been a challenge, although it was done
on the same principle as the other pieces.
First the wax model was put in a 150-
gallon tank of sulphuric acid and copper
sulphate, then taken out and exposed to
carbon tetrachloride fumes, which melted
the inside wax “it runs out of the knees,
here, where she’s kneeling” and finally
powdered stone, mixed with a syrupy cata-
lyst for quick hardening, was poured in
through the palm of the hand at the top.
By this time Mr. Boyd had attracted a
large audience. “Look,” he said with some
embarrassment, “I had no idea people
would want to know all this.” But every-
body did, and, in the welter of questions
that follawed, Mr. Boyd had no chance
of escaping for a second pie.
Seeing a Martin Boyd ashtray never
moved him to wrath or destruction. “The
trouble with a lot of artists is that they’re
too proud to take a well-paid, lowly job
like laboring or cleaning streets,” he said.
“But it’s the only way to have enough
creative energy left over at the end of
the day. Teaching, for instance, is hope-
less, yet that’s what a lot of them do.
They hate it, really. But I never hated
ashtrays. I just like sculpting better.”
In Brisbane
with Pep
“Damned unenter-
prising bunch of
candidates. Not
one of them tried
to buy me vote .”
“There it goes again. That
tinkling rendition of ‘Green-
sleeves’.”


More about Air Marketing:
mm
f
,
Your cargo's a big responsibility.
That's why we handle it ourselves
'round die world.
mm
mm
When you ship on some airlines, you can’t be
sure who’s really handling your cargo once it’s
out of your sight. It just disappears into a
pool . . . where another airline one you didn’t
ask for becomes involved.
Pan Am takes care of its own. In virtually all
the major markets we serve, 91 of them to be
specific, we won’t let anyone else touch your
cargo. We’re particular that way. We’re respon-
World’s largest air cargo carrier
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC
SYDNEY: KINGSFORD-SMITH AIRPORT. 67 1384 •
sible that way. We prefer it. We know shippers
do, too.
Our cargo personnel are the best in the business.
And their business is to move your shipments
quickly, safely. Recently reduced Pan Am
insurance rates, world-wide, prove they do.
Better than ever. Get all the benefits of the
world’s most experienced airline. World-wide. Call
your Pan Am Cargo Agent. Or call us.
World’s most experienced airline
FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST ’ROUND THE WORLD
MELBOURNE: SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL. 63 9077
PASII


The Great Football Fade-out
Melbourne enthusiasm - a long way short of detonators
By BATMAN
Melbourne is divided into two
parts. There are those who are
fascinated by the great Australian
game and those who could burst into tears
with the boredom of it. It is June and
Melbourne is drenched with football
it seeps through every pore.
Footballers take part in everything. Last
week there was a promotion for nylon
stockings and we were introduced to Miss
Joanne Crume, “Miss Shapely Legs,” and
the P.R. people, to squeeze that extra
ounce of publicity, had her escorted around
town by the current hero, Carl Ditterich.
Again, there was a fashion parade turned
on by the fur trade and in the middle of
it we had Ted Whitten, of Footscray,
dressed up in his footy togs. To help pro-
mote the food-for-India campaign there
was a weight-reducing contest among
leading Melbourne personalities. Which
personalities? Oh, you clever person, you
have guessed already. The people chosen
were all footballers and we had the pure
excitement of day-by-day bulletins on
weight reduction and the thrill of specu-
lating on which club would win.
Perhaps never before in the history of
the game has football received so much
publicity. Ralph Rogerson, captain of Fitz-
roy, resigned his post on the same day as
His Grace, Archbishop Gough, Primate of
the Anglican Church in Australia. How-
ever, Rogerson had a clear edge in Press
coverage,
And there have been some damn good
football stories this year. Particularly I
liked the story about the Essendon full-
back, Greg Brown. Mr. Brown married
Miss Jill Hogan, of Coburg, and took her
to Surfers Paradise for a two-week honey-
moon,
The lovers had been in their paradise
only a few days when the heartless Essen-
don selectors telephoned and appealed to
him to return for the match against Col-
lingwood the following Saturday. Essen-
don supporters everywhere admired his
selfless devotion to the grand old team
when he said: “I have a very understand-
ing wife. She must be, to agree to being
a football widow in the first week.” So
Brown and widowed Jill were flown down
for thii desperately important match.
“Mirror, mirror on the wall,
Who is best and fairest of them all?"
The sacrifice reminded some of other
great moments in history. For example,
there was Hector, Prince of Troy, and
commander-in-chief of the Trojan and
allied armies, who was forced to leave his
newly wed bride, Andromache, to do battle
against the Achaean Army. Actually Hec-
tor was killed by Achilles and had his body
dragged behind Achilles’ chariot in the
arena.
Greg Brown on this particular Saturday
didn’t do very well, either. He was not
named by any of the commentators among
Essendon’s best players. It never pays to
take young heroes away from their brides.
It is considered vital in Melbourne for
everybody to get into the act. The former
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, was number
one ticket-holder at Richmond. The new
Governor, Sir Rohan Delacombe, didn’t
hesitate a second and became number one
Richmond man in his place. Sir Robert
Menzies, a canny fellow, is number one at
Carlton. The Leader of the Opposition,
Arthur Calwell, holds formal office at
North Melbourne. So far Harold Holt has
expressed no allegiance to any team. Is
he spurning this great game? On top of his
conscription troubles, failure to declare his
hand could go badly against him next
December.
There is barely a firm in the city that
does not bring out a footy fixture list, a
book of footy lore or some gimmick. Our
banks, for example, do not go so much for
piggy banks, they produce their money-
boxes in the shape of footballs.
The souvenir business is immense. The
“Sun News Pictorial” estimated that a
true cheer leader would spend up to $6O
on a correct outfit including club beanie,
club socks, club sweater, club scarf, club
streamers and Lou-Rich ards-faced doll.
Also, it is fairly important to have a club
footy sweater for one’s poodle, club towels
for the bathroom, club teatowels for the
kitchen, and club nappies for the baby.
Although it is difficult to decide, consider-
ing their function, whether club nappies
are a compliment to the club or not.
Until recently the Gas and Fuel Cor-
poration had on sale enamelled stoves in
club colors. A St. Kilda or Melbourne
stove could look quite startling. The stoves
sold poorly and are no longer on display,
which possibly could be an indication that
the devotion is slipping slightly.
Radio and television give football almost
non-stop coverage. We get team selections,
we get interminable previews, plays and
replays, and finally the post-mortems,
which can run up to three hours on Sun-
days.
Just to give you an idea of the intel-
lectual level of some of this we have a
new program on GTV9 which gets the
peak viewing spot 7 p.m. on Thursday
nights. It is called “The Big Game.” On
the GTV set they have a reproduction of
a football field. And every week they have
a quiz match between two League teams,


THE
HAPPY- GO - LI VELIEST
STATION WAGON
OF THEM ALL
**&/&*- ' - ---^
\
A**"'
>%
- .*W ~~
'=3F
<- _:'
With a Valiant Safari VB, you get more when you buy
it, drive it, and finally trade it —A handsome, roomy
station wagon big enough inside to carry a mountain
of camping gear, and to sleep in. For extra measure in
load capacity, a roof rack comes as standard equip-
ment. The combination of 273 V 8 power and Torque-
flite 3-speed automatic transmission brings driving at
its thrilling best and provides the ultimate for trailing a
boat or towing a caravan. Brilliant performance is
matched by outstanding safety—and, because Safari
V 8 is Chrysler built, the quality and value last. This
year, move up to the Valiant way of life with a Safari
V 8 or Valiant 273 V 8 sedan.
Valiant Safari V 8 $3590 (£1795) tax inc.
Valiant V 8 Sedan $3550 (£1775) tax inc.
Valiant
SAFARI
V 8
w
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.


complete with the name players. The
players turn out in full football regalia, and
Tony Charlton, the compere, glory be, is
dressed in white shirt and shorts as an
umpire.
Mr. Charlton asks the questions and the
ball goes up and down the field according
to which team gets the right answers. We
have had some hot questions like: “What
team does Graham Kennedy barrack for?”
and “John Peck has four children, are
they all daughters or all sons?”
You will be pleased to hear that both
questions were answered correctly. Graham
Kennedy barracks for St. Kilda and John
Peck, the Hawthorn full-forward, has four
daughters. However, on the same program
one footballer was unaware which scientist
produced the theory of relativity.
It is all done with authentic atmosphere.
There are cheer squads all around the
ground, which squeal and wave streamers
after every question. But the beautiful
climax comes after the ball has been
quizzed right up the ground and a goal
has been scored. The goal umpire is a Go-
Go girl. All in white complete with mod
skirt four inches above the knee and white
boots, she does an ecstatic dance, rotating
her pelvis and waving the flags at the
same time. It’s fun.
Saturday evening at 6 o’clock we get the
replay of the day’s football matches on
all four TV channels. One time the ABC
kept out of it, but now we get it on
ABV2 as well, so on Saturday evening
there is this uncompromising diet of foot-
ball. Just in the past few weeks the reac-
tion to this has been most interesting.
There have been some bitter letters to the
newspapers.
This one which appeared in the “Her-
ald” was typical of many:
Sir, As another mother who has not got
“footy fever,” may I agree (with previous
correspondents) about football replays on
all channels simultaneously. If it were
anything else but football, it would be
said that we were living under a totali-
tarian regime! The result is much the same,
as children are deprived of the most suit-
able time for viewing. Please, TV stations,
give a better deal to those who have not
been brainwashed by the football cult.
Mrs. M. Hughes,
Walpole St., Kew.
It was this letter that first gave me some
heretical doubts. I had been taught at my
mother’s knee that Melbourne was the
greatest football town on earth and that
the passion was complete. Could it be
that a large section of the community was
not all that interested and that the TV
and radio were overdoing this thing? One
time at the beginning of the football sea-
son newspapers had an automatic circula-
tion increase. This has not happened in
recent years.
Furthermore, I began to notice that the
interest of some of my friends was some-
what spurious. They devoted themselves
to a team only because they felt it would
be unclean, Melbourne-wise, not to do so.
Several of them even asked their sons to
give them a brief summary of results to
take to the office on Monday mornings so
that they would not be hideously out of
the conversation.
It would be most worth while for a stu-
dent of social studies to examine statistic-
ally how interest in Australian Rules foot-
ball has progressed over the past 60 years.
I would like to see a graph charted on
football attendances related to city popu-
lation. My feeling is that the graph, par-
ticularly from the ’twenties and the
’thirties, would take a downward slope.
Regrettably, I have no conclusive figures
to offer, but I have taken samplings from
old copies of “The Argus” which gives
some quite intriguing pointers.
The first sampling was 1912, when the
population of Melbourne was 590,000.
Figures were not correctly charted then
and they were listed only for the match of
the day. There were no turnstiles and
attendance was judged by the takings. For
the match of the day Sth. Melbourne v.
Fitzroy it was 15,000; on May 6, Fitzroy
v. Carlton, it was 14,000; on May 13,
Essendon v. Carlton, it was 20,000; and
on May 20, Sth. Melbourne v. Essendon,
it was 20,000.
For the Grand Final in 1913, St. Kilda
v. Fitzroy, attendance was 59,479. Think
that over; that is the equivalent of more
than 200,000 today with no radio, no TV,
minimal cover in the newspapers, and no
club nappies.
In 1921 Melbourne’s population was
782,979 and there were eight teams in
the competition as opposed to 12 now.
However, Association Football was draw-
ing crowds as well as the League. The
match of the day in 1921 drew a crowd
of 25,000-30,000. Here are the total
attendances for four matches in the first
three rounds: 70,000, 77,000, 70,000. In
1939, after the Depression years, popula-
tion was 1.046,750. The first three rounds
were 103,500, 95,750, and 105,400. The
population of Melbourne is now around
2,100,000, so to keep our graph on the up-
curve we should be getting crowds every
week of 220,000 or more.
Or, considering the personality cult, the
publicity given to footballers, and the use
of the motor-car, we should be getting
around 300,000. In 1965 the season started
with a split round with 178,159 and then
we had 150,008, 99,621, and 165,880.
This year attendances are up, but they
don’t do anything extravagant to one’s
graph. For the first week of the split round
it was 217,792, 135,070, 144,528, 166,406,
and 139,856.
But are we making progress at all? Rich-
mond Football Club in its annual report
last year pointed out that there had been
a “disturbing” decline in attendances since
1963. It listed total attendances at all
clubs for the first-round matches. In 1963
the total was 2,739,372; in 1964 the total
was 2,536,962; and in 1965 the total was
2,550,567.
Of course, part of the trouble is the ex-
pense. It now costs 75 cents to get into a
grandstand and 50 cents for the outer. If
you don’t have a membership ticket, which
costs $6, it can be quite an expensive after-
noon.
The reasons for attendance at football
can be subtle and varied. You might say
that people went to the football in the
old days because they had nothing else to
do. This is not true. Edwardian Melbourne
had a passionate interest in such things as
professional cycling, athletics, tug-o-war,
“Surely you’ve one television set that
doesn’t show footy?”
and the real interest of the working classes
was, of course, horse racing.
Yet there was this difference. Edwardian
Melbourne was small and compact. Sup-
porters for each team lived within walking
distance of the local football ground and
the teams were recruited in their own
areas. The people of Richmond loathed
the people of Collingwood, and the people
of Collingwood detested the citizens of
Fitzroy.
All this was very healthy, and frequently
the battle between the spectators was more
thrilling than the match on the football
field. Now it is impossible to place sup-
porters into neat suburban compartments.
There is no community feeling any more.
The people of Lalor do not hate the
people of Syndal. The people of Niddrie
do not hate the people of Wantirna. Very
likely the people of Niddrie do not know
where Wantirna is. Then you might argue
how could a city get sillier about football
than Melbourne? But the truth is that in
the big-time football stakes we hardly even
rate.
Melburnians are terribly proud they have
a football ground which holds 100,000
people, yet there are many in Europe and
North America which hold more than
that. The Maracana stadium in Rio de
Janeiro has taken crowds of more than
220,000. Whereas we had to put in wire
tunnels to protect the players from the lov-
ing affections of the spectators, at Mara-
cana stadium there is a moat ten feet wide
and five feet deep all around the ground
on the boundary line.
Glasgow, Liverpool, Madrid are all
better football towns. They get more
excited than we do, have more riots than
we do. Whereas we throw an occasional


She’s half of a fast billing department.
The other half’s her desk.
All she has to do is type. The new
5010 Computyper* electronic bill-
ing / accounting machine by
Friden does the rest.
It computes, stores', recalls,
types and re-stores figurework
information. Just touch a key.
Multiplication time is 350 milli-
seconds. Addition, 10 millisec-
onds. It turns a billing clerk into
a whole billing department. Or
speeds up your present one.
What’s more, no matter how
your billing and accounting pro-
cedures change, the 5010 can be
programmed for the change.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
2^1
The electronic billing/accounting machine by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
636 ST. KILDA ROAD, MELBOURNE. 51 6905
Branches:
SYDNEY 29 8731 ADELAIDE 23 5998
CANBERRA 4 6162 PERTH 23 3224
BRISBANE 54 520 HOBART 34 2673
422 N
beer can, Italians throw anything in sight
—bottles, tomatoes, firecrackers, and just
lately there has been trouble because of
the throwing of detonators. Several weeks
ago Everton beat Sheffield in the Football
Association Cup Final at Wembley Sta-
dium. When the triumphant team returned
to Liverpool 500,000 people turned out to
greet them. Four hundred people were
treated for shock, bruises, and cuts and 30
were taken to hospital. The VFL must be
terribly disappointed that we cannot raise
this sort of enthusiasm.
Actually, the administration is not un-
aware that something has to be done to
make the game more attractive. Until 12
months ago the story was the same at
almost every ground. Supporters in the
Outer had to endure appalling conditions
of squalor; and discomfort. Lavatory con-
ditions were completely inadequate, and
even now they break down when they get
crowds of over 30,000. One of the most
degrading of all Australian sights is to see
a queue of 200 or more women lined up
outside a lavatory at a Melbourne football
ground.
However, practically every club is now
pouring money into new facilities. Haw-
thorn, for example, has built a new grand-
stand, Collingwood has covered its Outer,
Carlton is spending $500,000 on its social
club, VFL is building its new headquarters
at Waverley, and so on.
There are other plans for improving the
game. There has. been much discussion on
dividing Victoria into zones for each team.
This would stop the rat race of clubs try-
ing to pick the eyes out of the country
teams. It would help check the bartering
and high bidding for country players.
The need, of course, is to get an even
quality between the 12 VFL teams, and
the former coach of Geelong, Bob Davis,
suggests that we ' should use a scheme
which was used to get American gridiron
back on its feet. He said there should be
a carefully controlled roster system of re-
cruiting. There would be a pool of 60
recommended youngsters of League poten-
tial. Each team would have a choice of
three recruits by turn. Starting with the
bottom team on the ladder.
It is the rise of formally lowly teams
which causes new interest in the game.
Actually this season is shaping up very
well indeed. Teams which have suffered in
recent years, like St. Kilda, Richmond,
and Sth. Melbourne, are now high on the
list. Melbourne, the greatest power in Aus-
tralian Rules Football over the past decade,
is down at the bottom. The Demons have
lost 15 of their past 17 matches. They
haven’t won a match this season and they
have scored only one win since the remark-
able sacking and reinstatement of their
coach, Norm Smith, in July last year.
One of the heart-rending, poignant
sights in this town is to be at the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground to witness the
proud dignity of MCC members as they
suffer defeat after defeat. As late as last
year 50 percent of all children in Mel-
bourne under the age of 12 spent their
play hours wearing Melbourne football
sweaters. Now Melbourne has dropped to
seventh position in footy sweater sales.
Football fame is a very ephemeral thing.


THE OTHER SEX
Leg-girl on the run
I CAN’T say that Donald, who ran the
London “Daily Express” William
Hickey column, actually greeted me
with open arms. “This is Daphne and she
wants to learn about newspapers, see
what you can do for her, old chap, she’s
all yours now,” said his boss by way of
introduction. Donald, a journalist of some
distinction and still referred to as one of
Fleet Street’s last characters, said thank
you and sat me in the corner.
There were eight in the team, and a
pretty mixed bunch we were in both
sex and temperament. The secretary kept a
large diary into which she entered invita-
tions and who was covering them. I,
as new girl, was allowed out at first only
in the company of one of the old hands.
As luck would have it, Robert, whose own
about-town activities would fill a column
any day, taught me quite a lot. Together
we broke up many a formal party, return-
ing to base with lively paragraphs which
next morning brought a little cheer to the
sad lives of our readers. It was extraordin-
ary how' blase one’s attitude became to-
ward the activities of those born to a
higher station of life. The only compen-
sation for taking part in it ourselves, we
said, apart from the money, was being the
object of envy to all one’s chums.
We of the William Hickey team were
also objects of envy to the rest of the
newspaper staff. We had the reputation of
leading a soft life. The champagne glass, in
fact, was the first thing you looked for to
establish your right as a guest. With this
prop you could mingle without question.
The drama of it all w&s sometimes quite
frightening. Robert told me the thing to
do was learn the back entrances of all
hotels and places used for receptions . . .
“You must learn the geography of the
place, you never know when you’ll need a
quick exit.” I decided one day to experi-
ment and crept up the back stairs of
Londonderry House toward the babble of
wedding noise somewhere on the first floor.
It was unfortunate that my entrance from
behind a screen was at the exact spot
where the happy couple were receiving
their guests.
The minute a new face appeared on
the gossip-column circuit everyone noticed.
Other gossip writers from competitive
newspapers made it their business to in-
quire into your background. There was
Charles, with his moustache and brown
suede boots, from the “Daily Mail.”
“Where’ve you come from, darling?” Dar-
ling, who had a rather literal turn of
mind, said William Hickey. “No, no, I
mean what did you do before?” Darling
said she’d recently been helping ladies with
acne and too-large bosoms to counteract
these disabilities via the medium of a four-
penny woman’s magazine. I later learnt
this was considered a brilliant front. To
appear so naive on the job meant I was
obviously someone to be reckoned with.
The result of this was wherever I moved
the pack moved, too. Once they moved en
masse to the ladies’ room at the Dorches-
ter.
Anyway, news of this amazing capacity
for acting filtered through to Donald. “I
am going to give you your big break,” he
said. “I’ve decided if anyone can get this
story it’s you. You can have unlimited
expenses and I don’t want to see you for
three days.” All he stipulated was that on
my return he could print that a certain
famous actress was having an affair with
a certain peer of the realm. “Right,” I
said, “if I have to disguise myself as the
milkman I’ll get in,” observing at the
time a certain stunned reaction to this
remark.
The details of my three-day ordeal are
too complicated to go into now, but, briefly,
it appears my behaviour was so suspicious
to a team of CID men engaged in the
same area for evidence of diamond-smug-
gling that every move I made was written
down and sent back to headquarters. They
were very cross when they discovered who
I was. I know how they felt. I, too, had a
wasted three days, but I thought Donald
took it rather well when I reported back
a complete denial from the actress that
she was immersed in an affair with the
peer. He said it took great courage to run
up an expense account like mine and re-
turn with no story.
One needs the patience of Job in work
like gossip-writing. While not exactly
ever having done a foot-in-the-door job,
I have lurked on many a doorstep. These
assignments were frequently to ascertain
something as mundane as the color of a
lady’s dress in time for the first edition.
Occasionally we checked up on the ro-
mantic life of a Member of Parliament
and always, as far as I was concerned, it
rained. Then again an awful lot of waiting
was necessary for royal stories. There
were rules about royalty that had to be
observed: no trying for quotes, except
maybe Prince Michael, who was young and
vulnerable and probably didn’t know bet-
ter, keep your distance, and remember
royalty never made racing bets. They
did once at Ascot, but it never made the
sub-editor, let alone the printing presses.
The Queen Mum was pleasant and passed
the time of day with a good morning or
good afternoon when she got to know you,
and Alexandra had her moments. It was
all wasted copy.
It was at this stage of my career that
the gossip columnist of the “Daily Mirror,”
John Rolls, invited me to become his leg-
girl. There, actually, I was to be called
Girl Gay. I may be doing the man an
injustice but it seemed to me that William
Hickey was pleased to see me go.
The John Rolls column had a different
approach. They covered the same events
as William Hickey, but looked for a dif-
ferent story. For example, one hoped to
find false teeth embedded in a rock bun
behind the bushes at Buckingham Palace
for John Rolls, but William Hickey would
ignore the clackers and concentrate on
what Prince Philip was saying to an old-
age pensioner from Penzance. Both tasks
were difficult and, for my part, the only
enjoyment I got out of a Buckingham
Palace garden party was taking my shoes
off. John Rolls’ slapstick approach to so-
ciety, however, was one day realised at the
Prime Minister’s country residence,
“Chequers,” which Mr. Macmillan had
opened for charity. An old fat man fell
into the ornamental pool and was removed
instantly to the privacy of the potting
shed, converted for that afternoon into a
Red Cross station. There, stripped and
wrapped up in a hand-towel, the nurses
said he was receiving no publicity and
shut the door in my face. Anyway, it was
that sort of story that went down well on
John Rolls.
As Girl Gay, a seal was struck in my
honor. Actually, it was my photographed
profile completely blacked in and used
whenever I went about in my Girl Gay
capacity. After a while, my nose suffered.
They said it was the force with which it
hit the presses. At first it tip-tilted, then
one morning I opened the paper to see it
had gone altogether. In this bashed con-
dition it saw through many a good yarn.
The time, for instance, when I was sawn
in half in Holloway Prison for women. “If
you can get in with the concert party,” said
my new boss, James, “it’ll make a good
story. Copy by four, please.” Luckily the
lady due for sawing had fallen by the way-
side with the flu and the conjuror was de-
lighted to be offered my services as substi-
tute. We were all solemnly counted in
through the prison gates by an'official and
ushered to the cells where our performance
was due to take place.
It was all very jolly, and I think the
women prisoners quite enjoyed themselves.
They called out some lively encourage-
ment, I remember, to the tenor singer, and
the tap-dancing group seemed to go down
well. The comic, I thought, made a tact-
less reference to bars and then Clive came
on with his conjuring tricks. He called me
on, sawed me in half to suitable cries of
mock pain done rather cleverly, I
thought, considering it was unrehearsed
and off I went. I still recall the nasty sen-
sation of trying to open the door and a
prison guard coming up and saying what
did I think I was doing? To cut a long
story short, 13 of us went in the prison
in one party and 13 were going to leave in
one party. What with tea with the governor
and a couple of other social things we got
out at six o’clock, two hours too late for
James.
My last assignment for John Rolls was
to interview a non-English speaking Span-
ish singer who smelt of raw garlic, brillian-
tine, and Gauloise. Signing on for feature-
writing at the “Daily Herald” I remarked
that there are some things that even a
bashed-in nose cannot take . . .
DAPHNE GUINNESS


Best jetway
to
Hong Kong or
Singapore!
AIK MW 2ULAND
%
The way you like it —that's how you II find Five Star
Jetline service. The people are friendly and attentive,
the food is truly outstanding. The jets? Giant new
DC-B's, the world’s most preferred jetliners. From
Sydney at 11.15 a.m. direct to Hong Kong via Darwin
or direct to Singapore. Convenient connections from
most parts of Australia. And at Hong Kong or Singapore,
connections every day to Europe, Japan—everywhere!
Your Travel Agent or Air New Zealand will book you
instantly. Onward travel, inclusive tours, and hotels, too
AIR HEW lIAIAND
The Five Star Jetline ★★★★★
in association with QANTAS and BOAC.
General Sales Agents in Australia: Qantas
Air New Zealand offices: Sydney 28.2786 • Melbourne 63.2554 • Brisbane 31.2548
• Canberra 4.7147 • Adelaide 51.0331
AP70.107.855c
12771


Meeting Mary McCarthy
From KATHERINE WHITEHORN in London
I KNEW Mary McCarthy by sight, I
thought, as I waited for her in the
Lanvin boutique, a severe-looking
woman with a bun as she appears in the
book-jacket photographs. Her appear-
ance seemed to go well with the incisive
writing, the ruthless criticism, the devas-
tating analysis of female experience.
So when a great gawky American
with loose grey curls under a large straw
hat advanced toward me with a friendly,
uncertain smile I simply didn’t recognise
her. It took me a long 'time to recover
from the shock and fit the woman and
the author together: to come to terms
with this alarming youthfulness and re-
assemble my enormous admiration for
her along different lines. That first, morn-
ing, all I could do was yammer.
At Lanvin’s, she was asking them to
make up a piece of tribal cloth given her
by an Underdeveloped friend; and on the
whole they were taking it well. She was
wearing a discreet navy dress they had
made for her with the success of
“The Group” she bought couture for a
season, but mostly she gets her clothes
from the slightly less expensive boutique.
It could not, however, be said that the
effect was French: “I hate the French
uniform,” she said and added such
et ceteras as two-tone American shoes,
a spotted scarf, a country hat".
Leaving Lanvin’s we dripped our way
through the rain to Hermes next door:
it’s the world’s most expensive leather
shop, but surprisingly sells bathing dresses
as well, and she bought one that worked
out at about a pound an inch. The bell
rang; the shop shut for lunch; we were
out on the street. “That’s it about the
French,” she said as we climbed into a
taxi. “They aren’t mercenary they
really don’t want to sell you things at all.
My son Reuel had the phrase for it: he
said ‘Mummy, the French grudge gip-
ping you’.” She leant forward to give
directions to the driver, and went on.
“And what I hate about it is that you
become so abject, you get so grateful to
the one taxi-driver in a hundred that
actually knows the way to where you
want to go and he’s probably a
foreigner.”
In a television program some time ago
she complained that the French never
invite you to their homes; after which she
received a number of sudden invitations.
But she still maintains that most of the
French people she likes have foreign
wives or connections. Her husband,
James West, with whom we lunched in
the administrative chateau of OECD,
where he works, thinks she overstates it;
but they both prefer Poland to Paris. It
was in Poland, where he was a diplomat
and she was lecturing, that they originally
met: one catches faint nuances of “Dar-
ling, they’re playing our country” when-
ever the place is mentioned.
I felt this later in the day when we
climbed up the dark stairway to the
studio of a Polish painter, Lebenstein,
from whom they were to buy a gouache.
He provided champagne, but it did little
to counteract the compelling melancholy
of his paintings, each of which showed
a more hopeless picture of life than the
one before. When we finally tottered
out I felt that the logical thing to do
next would be to throw ourselves into the
Seine, but the Wests cheered up at once.
We whisked home through the rain to
supper in their flat in the Ruede Rennes;
it was an admirable supper, cooked from
Elizabeth David, but it was not fattening.
As she is a woman, and as she is an
American, she was dieting.
A day so spent is not, apparently,
typical: “Mostly I don’t do anything much
except work,” she said. But the homes of
those who really don’t, look it and
hers didn’t. It was pretty, very feminine:
Mary McCarthy
pale pink curtains she made herself,
flowered wallpaper; lots of white paint
against deep green, a pattern of hearts
on the breeze curtains. The details were
careful: a tiny rose in a minute bottle, a
big butterfly in the disc of glass; a Floren-
tine miniature. In contrast, the kitchen
was a spartan workroom: a stove specially
got from Germany, and a big iron Spanish
coffee-grinder: “I found the electric
grinder heats the coffee up; it isn’t so
good.”
She told me that Kay’s flat in “The
Group” pillow ticking chair covers and
red cushions was one she had had in
the ’thirties: “It depresses me to see young
people nowadays having exactly the same
fads as we had, like absolute belief in
psychoanalysis and absolute insistence on
modern furniture.”
Her study was neat Kenneth Tyn-
an’s denunciation of her article on
Osborne was filed under Controversy
and her antique desk was dominated by
a terrifying bird given her by the poet
Robert Lowell; she works with it staring
at her from a bare eight inches away,
but says she hardly looks at it. She types
all her own work “I hate to lose con-
tact with the prime materials” and
uses the typewriter as a creative device:
if she’s stuck she starts typing out a bit
she’s sure of in the hope that the
momentum will carry her over the sticky
bit.
She usually works from nine till four,
then goes out to shop for food. Her own
lunch is something light consomme or
eggs, but never, I gathered, sloppy. “I
don’t believe you should behave differ-
ently when you’re alone and when you’re
with people,” she said. “I suppose, not
just doubleness.”
This shipshape discipline of her work-
ing life has been built up and maintained
through some pretty fair private tem-
pests. When she left Vassar, the New
York women’s college, and married her
first husband, she wasn’t sure whether she
wanted to be a writer or an actress. Her
teachers at Vassar told her she’d never
be any good at creative writing, “and my
husband saw me in a play and told me to
forget about acting.”
For some time she wrote criticisms for
small leftish magazines such as the “Par-
tisan Review” she was a Trotskyite and
parted company with the Communists
over the Moscow Trials of 1936. (Her
anarchist sympathies could still be con-
strued as leftish, but she has avoided the
political arthritis you get if you try to
maintain the same attitude for 30 years.)
Then her extraordinary second husband,
Edmund Wilson, “put me in this little
room and he didn’t actually lock me in,
but it was clear I couldn’t come out until
I had written some fiction” the first
story in “The Company She Keeps.”
It took her seven years of steady trying
to get free of Wilson, and she was then
married for 13 to Bowden Broadwater, a
New York teacher who protected her
and arranged their New York life around
her “as if I was a sort of precious writing
machine.” She would show him each
chapter as it was finished not before,
though she suspected he used to look;
and now shows them to James West:
“Why do women writers have to show
their work to someone?” She is now work-
ing on a book about a 19-year-old boy;
one wonders if it will owe anything to her
own son by Edmund Wilson,. Reuel; but
she isn’t keen on talking about things be-
fore she has written them.
It was when she was sitting on a sofa
with her feet under her, smoking continu-
ously and talking about books, husbands,
politics, people, that the woman and the
writer finally jelled, and I saw that the
girlishness that had unnerved me at first
was a vital part of the writer. I had always
had the same feeling about her books: a
horrified blend of “This is so good every-
one should read it,” and “Oh, God, this
is me all over I hope nobody reads it.”
I had never stopped to think that, if she
had been as forbidding as I imagined, she
could never have attracted the emotional
experiences she dissects so devastatingly.
Or, of course, the confidences: the books
are not autobiographical. She said she
impersonated each person she wrote about:
“The Danish translator was the only one
who spotted that ‘The Group’ was written


Make this
your target
Si
o
m
NO
FIXED
TERM
Mil
RATE
NO FIXED TERM means your in-
vestment plus dividend is readily
available for withdrawal. Your
dividend is 6% p.a. net (current
rate) paid twice yearly. There are
NO deductions.
Assets exceed $l4 million. Write
for brochure.
TY
kBA 837 C
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J 8. Ward. Genera] Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME
ADDRESS.
from the point of view of each girl in
turn, like a pastiche.”
She confirmed, to my relief, my theory
that the title is almost always the clue
to her books: “The Company She Keeps”
stresses the difficulty a woman on her own
has in having any identity that is not just
a reflection of each person she meets in
turn; “The Group” is not just a random
sample, but an exploration of the effect
on these girls of thinking of themselves
as a group of special people; “A Charmed
Life” is what the intellectuals of New
Leeds live, a life on special terms, out of
all contact with reality; the girl loses it
when she makes an actual real-life decision
to take any sort of action and is killed in
a car crash.
Of her two great strengths as writer,
one is certainly that she has opened up
so many hitherto unmentioned areas of
feminine experience. The contraception
sequence in “The Group” is well known—
“ That woman,” said Sonnenberg, “has
done for the pessary what Herman Mel-
ville did for the whale”; since that book,
too, people having trouble with breast-
feeding can just say, “Like Pris Hartshorn-
Crockett,” where before they could only
blush. It is she who has admitted that a
woman can feel loving toward a man
because she is leaving him, and that she
can get seduced by accident—not from
vice or romanticism but simply by failing
to spot'the moment between “I can’t say
no yet” and “I can’t say no now.”
Her other enormous strength, it seems
to me, is detachment: the ability, while
one eye is closed in a swoon, to keep the
other one open, noticing. “Cast a Cold
Eye” is the title of one of her books—it
could be the clue title to her whole life,
She has too good a head not to see what
a dance her emotions are leading her—
never mind, on with the dance. She
observes herself and, which is a lot more
dangerous, her lovers and friends; and a
good deal of the venom she inspires is a
result of just this. Men don’t mind being
denounced by a woman, but they can’t
stand her making a witty thing out of
them. My own guess is that she is not,
actually, especially malicious, even in
public controversy: I get rather the im-
pression that she says these devastating
things with the immunity of a child who
doesn’t really believe the grown-ups can
be hurt.
Quite a number of grown-ups, it must
be admitted, have been sent reeling one
way and another. Mary McCarthy has
emotional integrity of the most disruptive
kind: she says she never thinks very far
ahead, and her loyalty is always to the
present commitment.
It is clear from what she says that she
has not married so often in a search for
a never-never happiness: on the contrary.
“I’m an extremely happy person,” she
said. “Until recently I never knew what
people meant when they said they were
depressed.” Her recent divorce and re-
marriage were not, it seems, a question of
what was wrong with Bowden Broadwater
but what was right with James West.
When you say that someone’s new
husband is an international civil servant,
ex-diplomat, ex-Air Force major, who has
the pink and white aspect of the conven-
tional Senator, you tend to assume that
she has simply settled down at last. But
it would be a great mistake to think that
in West, Mary has found no more than a
little grey home. The impulses that cause
a father of three to leave a pretty house-
wife in her thirties for a fiftyish author
are not standard, and nor is he. As
amusing to talk to as she is, he has a
Past a cultural past, a theatre-
managing past; and the force that swept
Mary McCarthy off her feet was clearly
the explosion of that stored charge. “lie
kept saying ‘You remind me of the
’thirties’,” she said; and the reawaking
was symbolised for her by his books: “His
shelves are covered with books on inter-
national finance, politics, things like that;
then one day they were all gone: he’d
brought up his old books from the cellar
and the shelves were filled with philosophy
and Henry James.
“I have this dream of us sitting in the
winter in Vermont by a vast stove—l’m
reading Hegel, he’s reading philosophy,
and it’s snowing outside.” Perhaps this is
a mellower dream than she might have
had 20 years ago; perhaps it is more
realistic; but, as a romantic, she is plainly
still going strong.
A romantic who can cast a cold eye
on her romanticism, it is an interesting
combination. I have a friend who thinks
that everyone has an emotional age
not a mental age toward which they
hurry, for which they yearn. He attributes
his own troubles to being emotionally 18,
and points with amazement to manage-
ment types who have apparently longed
since birth to be 50. Mary McCarthy, I
should say, has a mental age of about
200 and an emotional age of 24; and
what novelist would ask more?


PAPER FOR PROGRESS NO. 7OF A SERIES
V
\
j|||
mm
m
5 i>. '
m
r
am
m
dak ?
& t*
" ■ : r: -
If
« ■ sl§§^2
565.:«7
j
?■ Mim
/■ i
. AND A BETTER PACKAGE LIES IN THE BALANCE!
A.P.M.'s constant research programme helps produce
packaging materials that meet modern requirements.
It looks as though this man is using a weighing
machine and in a sense it is. He’s using a
carton board testing instrument designed to help
weigh up an A.P.M. product’s qualities as efficient
packaging material. That’s his job . . . helping to
raise the standards of A.P.M. papers and paperboards
to meet the special requirements of modern pack-
aging. A.P.M.'s printing and packaging laboratories
play an important part in this work.
fd
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate,
South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals.


■
On June 10th, a superb
new hotel opened in
Bangkok. It's the Siam
Inter Continental, long, low
and luxurious —with swimming
pool, terrace dining, air-
conditioned rooms and chic
supper club. All presided over
by General Manager Warner Gilmore—
who has a real gift for pleasing visitors.
Call your travel agent or Inter Continental
for reservations —by Panamac.
One of 32 incomparable Inter*
HOTEL
am
INTER* CONTINENTAL-BANGKOK
A Trifle Testy
Have you ever gone through a bush fire in overdrive?
From ALEXANDER FRATER in London
ONE recent, roseate morning I was
examined for my British Driving
Licence. I am no novice, you under-
stand; I have been driving all manner of
vehicles, everything from mopeds to dump
trucks, since I was a fuzzy-cheeked lad of
eighteen summers —but on an Australian
licence. Down Under. Some months ago
I took it, this thing, to the Ministry of
Transport and placed it on the counter.
“Australian?” said the man, touching it
with a finger. “Dear me; what a curious
object. It’s no good here, of course. We
can’t have people on our roads carrying,
uh, qualifications like that. You will
need,” he said, keeping his distance, “to
get a British licence; to take a test. You
shouldn’t find it overly difficult. I presume
you can steer? And change gears? That
sort of thing?”
I stared at him, amazed. “Have you
any idea who you’re talking to?”
“No,” he said, and walked away.
I called to him, wanting to tell him
about traversing the Nullarbor Plain with
waterbags hanging from my radiator, about
heading into the purpling horizon while
in my mirror skeletons of dead camels
rose and ran again in the rush of my
slipstream. Had this sleek, creamed man
ever gone through a bushfire in overdrive?
Or halted courteously at an Alice Springs
pedestrian crossing for naked abo ladies
with prams , and o i d moh from the A runta
Tribe who had come to town tQ buy
hooch? I leant over the counter and
shouted, “You ever greased your nipples
five hundred miles from the nearest
artesian bore?” but he didn’t even look
round
T , , . , , , , , ,
1 booked a test booked a car, booked
an rammer booked a road, and reported
to a small, tiled hut at eleven one morning,
the tiny waiting-room, flanked by
flusters °/ dirt y , ashtrays, I sat and
dreamt ° f blue skles /nd open roads;
slowly the door opened and in shuffled
. . . the Examiner! I leapt to my feet with
a |ad ready t 0 embrace him, then
paused, staring. He was tall, aging and
stooped, clad in a gabardine raincoat that
fell to his hocks. Everything about him
was fixed, inextricably, in the classical
ten-to-two steering position: his hands,
bearing clipboards and numbered sheets,
his feet, shod in brogues the size of fish-
ing smacks, his eyes, small and wet, taking
in all corners of the room simultaneously.
He wore a flat cap and his moustache was
bitten to the roots. “Mr. Frater,” he
said, moving his lips in the orthodox way,
but playing havoc with the name. “Yes,
yes!” I cried.
“Lead on,” he said.
“Where?” I asked. Perhaps we could
go to some sunny canteen and take coffee
and croissants together; I suddenly wanted
to know whether he had enjoyed the war.
“To your car!” he shouted, trembling
with rage. “To your motor-car!”
In the street he seized my arm. “You
see that bus? Read me the number.”
I read him the number. He nodded.
“Have you,” he said, “any undeclared
physical disabilities?”
What a curious question, I reflected.
At home, when I had taken my test at
the Bundawalla Driving Centre, the
examiner had simply asked, “How many
pints of lager can you sink before you
fall over?” I had answered, “Thirteen,”
and he had said, “That’s all right, mate;
you’ll do.” Undeclared physical disabili-
ties? Well, now. Should I tell him about
my warts, my double-jointed hip, my
splayed front teeth? I opened my mouth
and pointed. “I have these,” I said. He
peered at them. “Yes,” he said, “they
could interfere with your vision.”
“Only if I look downwards,” I said.
He started to tremble again as the rage
built up. “I shall make a note of them,
nevertheless,” he whistled. “Don’t try to
teach me my business; I know a physical
disability when I see one.”
I led the way to the car, reflecting that
things had got off to a bad start. I decided
to play it cool and English. “Bloody lovely
day,” I observed. “All the girls in their
light dresses and the bulbs and everything.
Makes a joker believe in God.” I looked
around for his agreeably pleased face, but
it wasn’t there. It was following two paces
behind, closed and bleak beneath its flat
cap, and it said, “It is illegal to ingratiate
oneself with the Examiner.”
Mashing a Poofteroo
JNGRATIATE oneself! Good heavens!
It was beginning to dawn on me that
this man was a poofteroo; the only way to
deal with them, of course, is to mash
them up a bit, but it occurred to me that
the Min. of Tran, might quibble. We
arrived, in silence, at the car, and I swung
the door open for him. “I will let myself
in,” he said, coldly. I shrugged, went
round to the driver’s door, and entered
myself. “Bit chilly in here,” I remarked.
“Like a rug round your knees? Or,” I said,
opening the glovebox, “a gobstopper to
suck?”
“Drive on when you are ready,” he said.
“Okay,” I said, “okay,” and went
through the instrument rundown, mentally
chanting Juliet Tango Foxtrot to Control,
I am ready for Takeoff. “Now,” I said,
easing myself down into the seat and turn-
ing to him smilingly, “I shall take you
for a drive the likes of which you have


All I said was:
“We’ll save money by hiring
Chep Fork lifts and Pallets
...and they gave me a rise!”
Of course I did some research. I found that Chep have the
largest fleet of materials handling equipment in Australia.
They gave me the benefit of their advisory service. They
quoted me rates and showed me how I could save my
Company money. Now we hire fork lift trucks by the hour
or for long periods, as we need them.
Another thing that helped Chep have a fleet of mobile
radio-controlled workshops . . . Johnny-on-the-spot for
service and repairs. No more costly down-time.
Make your mark, mention Chep, the people who can put
your materials handling on a profitable footing.
CH.fi
@
CHEP Minogue Crescent,
Glebe, N.S.W., 68 4211.
CHEP Sandgate Road, Albion,
Brisbane, Queensland, 6 2181.
CHEP 205 Hanson Road, Athol Park,
Adelaide, 45 7922.
never experienced before. I shall introduce
you to a thrilling new concept in motoring.
Strap yourself in, cocko; this bird is about
to fly.”
“Drive on when you’re ready,” he said.
“Roger.” I started up, pulled out and
hammered away, double declutching a bit
just to show him I could. A couple of
minutes later he intoned, “Soon I shall
shout Stop! and you will pull up abruptly
as though a child had run into the road.”
“Fond of kiddies?” I asked, beating up
a milk lorry.
“Stop!” he screamed; I gave an
exhilarated yell and hit everything within
reach simultaneously; we roared to a
halt, horn sounding, blinkers flashing,
and the smell of scorched rubber tangy
in the early spring air. It was about then
that he started to talk but not to me.
I strained an ear, hoping to catch the
drift of his remarks, but they were
incomprehensible, a low, bitter monotone
that went on and on, serving as a com-
forting complement *to the hum of the
engine. He became audible, once, when
we braked and hovered at a pedestrian
crossing for a very old lady with built-up
arches. “Come on come on come on
come on it must be Whistler’s mother oh
blast faster woman faster.”
A Kind of Bliss
“JpARDON?” I said, but he whispered
“Drive on.” We drove. We reversed.
We swung in circles. We braked on hills
and free-wheeled down dales and always
the muttering, building up to • a shriek
whenever we mounted the pavement, until
I started to pray softly to the Great
Examiner in the Sky: “Oh, Jesus” I
prayed, “I think I am going to halt at
a lay-by and bash this drongo over the
moosh.” Then, mercifully, we reached
the Test Centre; he fired a couple of
standard questions on procedure and I
slumped down on my seat, and said
“Well?”
The humming had ceased. He was
suddenly relaxed, and a kind of bliss was
stealing over his face as the moment of
fulfilment approached. “I am afraid,” he
said, “that you have failed your test.”
I stared at him in disbelief; he made
some marks on a piece of paper, said
“Good morning” and left the car. I
watched him walk away in the rear-view
mirror. “Hey!” I shouted. “Smiley!
What’s wrong with you, anyway?”
He turned, placed his head through
the window and I could see the rage
building up again, the face turning puce,
the clipboard beginning to tremble.
“You people,” he said, “you all want
licences to drive cars. Cars, cars, cars,”
he chanted, “polluting the sweet air and
turning our green countryside into a
crawling mass of metal. You come twelve
thousand miles and you want to join
them; well, what about the trees? What
about the little flowers? God damn Henry
Ford, I say. God damn the man. God
damn you all,” He left and walked to
the Centre, giving a pavement oak a solid
reassuring pat in passing.


OVERSEAS
Cauldrons
of Change
By ROBERT S. McNAMARA
FROM the point of view of combat
readiness, the United States has never
been militarily stronger. We intend
to maintain that readiness. But if
we think profoundly about the matter, it
is clear that this purely military posture
is not the central element in our security.
A nation can reach the point at which
it does not buy more security for itself
simply by buying more military hardware
—we are at that point. The decisive factor
for a powerful nation —already adequately
armed—is the character of its relationships
with the world. In this respect, there are
three broad groups of nations: firstly, those
that are struggling to develop—secondly,
those free nations that have reached a level
of strength and prosperity that enables
them to contribute to the peace of the
world and finally, those nations who
might be tempted to make themselves our
adversaries. For each of these groups, the
United States —to preserve its own intrinsic
security has to have distinctive sets of
relationships.
First, we have to help protect those
developing countries which genuinely need
and request our help, and which—as an
essential precondition are willing and
able to help themselves. Second, we have
to encourage and achieve a more effective
partnership with those natipns who can
and should share international peace-
keeping responsibilities. Third, we must do
all we realistically can to reduce the risk
of conflict with those who might be
tempted to take up arms against us. Let
us examine these three sets of relation-
ships in detail.
First, the developing nations. Roughly
100 countries today are caught up in the
difficult transition from traditional to
modern societies. There is no uniform
rate of progress among them, and they
range from primitive mosaic societies
fractured by tribalism and held feebly to-
gether by the slenderest of political
sinews to relatively sophisticated coun-
tries, well on the road to agricultural
sufficiency and industrial competence.
This sweeping surge of development, par-
ticularly across the whole southern half of
the globe, has no parallel in history. It
has turned traditionally listless areas of
the world into seething cauldrons of
change. On the whole, it has not been
a very peaceful process.
In the past eight years alone there have
been no less than 164 internationally sig-
nificant outbreaks of violence each of
them specifically designed as a serious
challenge to the authority, or the very
existence, of the government in question.
82 different governments have been
directly involved. What is striking is that
only 15 of these 164 significant resorts to
violence have been military conflicts be-
McNamara - living on a clill.
tween two States. And not a single one
of the 164 conflicts has been a formally
declared war. Indeed, there has not been
a formal declaration of war —anywhere in
the world—since World War 11. The
planet is becoming a more dangerous place
to live on not merely because of a
potential nuclear holocaust —but also be-
cause of the large number of de facto
conflicts and because the trend of such
conflicts is growing rather than diminish-
ing.
At the beginning of 1958, there were
23 prolonged insurgencies going on about
the world. As of February 1, 1966, there
were 40. Further, the total number of
outbreaks of violence has increased each
year: in 1958 there were 34 in 1965
there were 58. But what is most sig-
nificant of all is that there is a direct and
constant relationship between the inci-
dence of violence and the economic status
This is an abridged version of a
major statement of policy by Robert
S. McNamara, U.S. Secretary of De-
fence, before the American Society of
Newspaper Editors in Montreal late
last month.
of the countries afflicted. The World
Bank divides nations, on the basis of per
capita income, into four categories: rich,
middle-income, poor, and very poor. The
rich nations are those with a per capita
income of 750 dollars per year or more.
The current U.S. level is more than $2700.
There are 27 of these rich nations. They
possess 75 percent of the world’s
wealth, though roughly only 25 percent
of the world’s population. Since 1958,
only one of these 27 nations has suffered
a major internal upheaval on its own
territory.
But observe what happens at the other
end of the economic scale. Among the
38 very poor nations those with a per
capita income of under $lOO a year
no less than 32 have suffered significant
conflicts. Indeed, they have suffered an
average of two major outbreaks of violence
per country in the eight-year period. This
is a great deal of conflict. What is worse,
it has been,, predominantly, conflict of a
prolonged nature.
The trend holds predictably constant
in the case of the two other categories:
the poor and the middle-income nations.
Since 1958, 87 percent of the very poor
nations, 69 percent of the poor nations,
and 48 percent of the middle-income
nations have suffered serious violence.
There can, then, be no question but that
there is an irrefutable relationship be-
tween violence and economic backward-
ness. And the trend of such violence is
up, not down. Now, it would perhaps be
somewhat reassuring if the gap between
'he rich nations and the poor nations were
closing and economic backwardness
were significantly receding. But it is not.
The economic gap is widening.
By the year 1970 over one half of the
world’s total population will live in the
u (dependent nations sweeping across the
nouthern half of the planet. But this
hungering half of the human race will by
then command one one-sixth of the world s
total of goods and services. By the year
1975 the dependent children of these
nations alone children under 15 years
of age will equal the total population
of the developed nations to the north.
Even in our own abundant societies we
have real worry over the tensions that
coil and tighten among underpriviliged
young people, and finally flail out in de-
linquency and crime. What are we to
expect from a whole hemisphere of youth
where mounting frustrations are likely to
fester into eruptions of violence and
extremism?
Annual per capita income in roughly
half of the 80 underdeveloped nations
that are members of the World Bank is
rising by a paltry one percent a year or
less. By the end of the century these
nations at their present rates of growth
will reach a per capita income of barely
$l7O a year. The United States, by the
same criteria, will attain a per capita
income of $4500.
The conclusion to all of this is blunt
and inescapable: given the certain con-
nection between economic stagnation and
the incidence of violence, the years that
lie ahead for the nations in the southern
half of the globe are pregnant with viol-
ence. This would be true even if no
threat of Communist subversion existed.
The United States has no mandate
from on high to police the world and no
inclination to do so, There have been
cases in which our deliberate non-action
was the wisest action of all. Where our
help is not sought, it is seldom prudent
to volunteer. Certainly we have no charter
to rescue floundering regimes who have
brought violence on themselves by de-
liberately refusing to meet the legitimate
expectations of their citizenry. Further,
throughout the next decade advancing
technology will reduce the requirement
for bases and staging rights at particular
locations abroad, and the whole pattern
of forward deployment will gradually
change.
But though all these caveats are clear
enough the irreducible fact remains
that our security is related directly to the
security of the newly developing world.
And our role must be precisely this: To
help provide security to those developing
nations which genuinely need and request


11111
one in a series of case histories of Goodyear reliability in industry ...
WE WAITED
I
TO BRING YOU THIS STORY
u
r !
if
:■
•vt
i •
- S
8 g 5
*p
-
mug
Mr
*5&
:
CASE HISTORY 1
In 1951, that’s 15 years ago, a set of
six Goodyear ClO5 multi V-belts was
installed to drive the No. 8 Circular
Saw at a large firm of Sydney Timber
Merchants, Vanderfield & Reid Ltd.
Operating at 950 R.P.M. from a 35
H.P. motor, the V-belts drive from
an BV2 O.D. pulley to one 13% O.D.
The saw operates, on the average, 6
hours a day, 5 days a week. That
means that these Goodyear V-belts
have worked about 22,500 hours over
15 years. So that’s a long time. So
they’re Goodyear belts. They’re made
to take it.
With reliable performance like this,
it’s no wonder that this firm insists on
all Goodyear rubber products.
CASE HISTORY 2
At the North Melbourne Bedford St.
plant of Metropolitan Refrigerated
Services Pty. Limited, Goodyear Green
Seal V-belts are giving maximum
trouble-free hours at minimum cost.
Eleven D 270 Goodyear Green Seal
V-belts have been operating in the
freezer and stores side of the plant
for 10 years. The compressor is an
80 ton twin cylinder 11 in. x 11 in.
V/erner. It works approximately 112
hours every week of the year.
Six D 240 Goodyear Green Seal belts
drive a 7 in. x 7 in. Werner compres-
sor, while three Wilac twin cylinder 70
compressors are each fitted with twelve
D 270 Goodyear Green Seal belts.
Both the Werner and Wilac compres-
sors are fully automatic and the belts
fitted to them are exposed to a con-
siderable amount of wear and tear. Yet
in their 4 years’ service since installa-
tion, the drives have given no trouble
at all. They have, in fact, many years
of service left.
It’s this type of reliable service that
makes Goodyear V-belts synonymous
with high quality engineering know-
how.
When you want extra driving force at
the lowest drive cost, contact your
Goodyear technical man at the Good-
year branch in your State.
*r
good/year
CSOOB


our help, and which demonstrably are
willing and able to help themselves. The
rub comes in this: We do not always
grasp the meaning of the word security
in this context.
In a modernising society, security means
development. Security is not military
hardware though it may include it.
Security is not military force though
it may involve it. Security is not tradi-
tional military activity though it may
encompass it. Security is development.
A developing nation that does not in
fact develop simply cannot remain secure.
It cannot remain secure for the intract-
able reason that its own citizenry cannot
shed its human nature. If security implies
anything, it implies a minimal measure of
order and stability. Without internal de-
velopment of at ieast a minimal degree,
order and stability are simply not pos-
sible. They are not possible because
human nature cannot be frustrated be-
yond intrinsic limits. It reacts because
it must. Now, that is what we do not
always understand and that is also
what governments of modernising nations
do not always understand.
But by emphasising that security arises
from development, I do not say that an
underdeveloped nation cannot be subverted
from within or be aggressed upon from
without or be the victim of a combina-
tion of the two. It can. And to prevent
any or all of these conditions a nation
does require appropriate military capa-
bilities to deal with the specific problem.
And that brings me to the second set
of relationships that I underscored at the
outset it is the policy of the United
States to encourage and achieve a more
effective partnership with those nations
who can, and should, share international
peace-keeping responsibilities. America
has devoted a higher proportion of its
gross national produce to its military
establishment than any other major free
world nation. We cannot be expected to
bear a disproportionate share of the com-
mon burden indefinitely. If, for example.
other nations genuinely believe as they
say they do—that it is in the common
interest to deter the expansion of Red
China’s economic and political control be-
yond its national boundaries, then they
must take a more active role in guarding
the defence perimeter. Let me be perfectly
clear: This is not to question the policy
of neutralism or non-alignment of any par-
ticular nation. But it is to emphasise that
the independence of such nations can
in the end be fully safeguarded only
by collective agreements among themselves
and their neighbors. The plain truth is the
day is coming when no single nation,
however powerful, can undertake by itself
to keep the peace outside its own borders.
That brings me to the third and last
set of relationships the United States must
deal with: That with nations who might
be tempted to take up arms against us.
These relationships call for realism. -But
realism is not a hardened, inflexible,
unimaginative attitude. The realistic mind
is a restlessly creative mind free of
naive delusions, but full of practical
alternatives. There are practical alterna-
tives to our current relationships with both
the Soviet Union and Communist China.
A vast ideological gulf separates them from
one another. There is nothing to be gained
from our seeking an ideological rapproch-
ment but breaching the isolation of
great nations like Red China, even when
that isolation is largely of its own making,
reduces the danger of potentially catas-
trophic misunderstandings, and increases
the incentive on both sides to resolve dis-
putes by reason rather than by force.
There are many ways in which we can
build bridges toward nations who would
cut themselves off from meaningful con-
tact with us. We can do so with properly
balanced trade relations, diplomatic con-
tacts, and in some cases even by exchanges
of military observers. We have to know
where it is we want to place this bridge
what sort of traffic we want to travel
over it and on what mutual foundations
Billy Graham’s English Crusade
Trog. "The Observer”
“Could you speak up, please? You’ve got a still, small voice.”
the whole structure can be designed. There
are no one-cliff bridges. If you are going
to span a chasm, you have to rest the
structure on both cliffs.
Now cliffs, generally speaking, are
rather hazardous places. Some people are
afraid even to look over the edge. But in
a thermonuclear world we cannot afford
any political acrophobia. President John-
son has put the matter squarely. By build-
ing bridges to those \*ho make themselves
our adversaries “we can help gradually
to create a community of interest, a com-
munity of trust, and a community of
effort.” With respect to a “community of
effort,” let me suggest a concrete proposal
for our own present young generation in
the United States. It is a committed and
dedicated generation. It has proven that
in its enormously impressive performance
in the Peace Corps overseas and in its
willingness to volunteer for a final assault
on such poverty and lack of opportunity
that still remain in our own country. As
matters stand, our present selective ser-
vice system draws on only a minority of
eligible young men. That is an inequity.
It seems to me that we could move to-
ward remedying that inequity by asking
every young person in the United States
to give two years of service to his coun-
try whether in one of the military
services, in the Peace Corps or in some
other volunteer developmental work at
home or abroad.
We could encourage other countries to
do the same and we could work , out
exchange programs much as the Peace
Corps is already planning to do. While
this is not an altogether new suggestion,
it has been criticised as inappropriate
while we are engaged in a shooting war.
But I believe precisely the opposite is the
case. It is more appropriate now than
ever. For it would underscore what our
whole purpose is in Vietnam and in-
deed anywhere in the world where
coercion or injustice or lack of decent
opportunity still holds sway. It would
make meaningful the central concept of
security. A world of decency and develop-
ment where every man can feel that
his personal horizon is rimmed with hope.
Mutual interest mutual trust mutual
effort those are the goals. Can wc
achieve those goals with the Soviet
Union and with Communist China? Can
they achieve them with one another?
The answer to these questions lies in the
answer to an even more fundamental ques-
tion. Who is man? Is he a rational ani-
mal? If he is, then the goals can ulti-
mately be achieved.
If he is not, then there is little point
in making the effort.
All the evidence of history suggests
that man is indeed a rational animal
but with a near infinite capacity for folly.
His history seems largely a halting but
persistent effort to raise his reason above
his animality. He draws blueprints for
Utopia. But never quite gets it built. In
the end he plugs away obstinately with
the only building material really ever at
hand: His own part-comic, part-tragic,
part-cussed, but part-glorious nature. I,
for one, would not count a global free
society out. Coercion, after all, merely
captures man. Freedom captivates him.


exporters!
SALES INCREASE 500% IN 3 YEARS!
A policyholder* writes—
“ When we first took out an E.P.I.C. policy, we were exporting to six
buyers in three countries and felt we were not doing too badly as
experienced exporters.
“That was three years ago.
“Since then we have diligently followed up every enquiry about our
products and appointed agents in new countries. On many occasions
we felt we were venturing into the unknown. We could never have
afforded to do this without E.P.I.C. protection and support in so many
ways.
“Now we are exporting to 60 buyers in eight countries, have increased
our sales five fold and not lost a penny through bad debts although
we are accommodating the reasonable credit requirements of our
buyers."
epic
SAFE!
You, too, can expand your export business and
safeguard your profits by using our services.
Export Payments Insurance Corporation
(Commonwealth Govt. Guaranteed)
*The writer must remain anonymous. E.P.I.C. is pledged to respect the
business confidences of its clients.
EP6.43.105
FORUM 1
Compulsory Fingerprinting
Toward a Police State?
By GORDON HAWKINS
EVER since the introduction of volun-
tary mass fingerprinting of civilians
in Western Australia late in 1964,
occasional news stories about the progress
of the scheme have appeared in the Press
throughout Australia and given rise to brief
flurries in the correspondence columns.
The subject came up again last month
when it was reported —POLICE STUDY
MASS PRINT FlLE—that mass finger-
printing was discussed by the annual con-
ference of Australasian Police Commis-
sioners in Melbourne. This was not, in
fact, the first time that the assembled
Commissioners had considered the matter.
But, although this time Victorian Police
Commissioner Arnold publicly expressed
interest, as on previous occasions, caution
prevailed and “the conference did not
come to any firm conclusions.”
Coincidentally it was reported from
London that the U.K. Home Office was
studying the possibility of introducing
compulsory fingerprinting for every adult
in Britain. Over there Commander Ernest
Millen, head of Scotland Yard’s CID,
every bit as cautious as Commissioner
Arnold, said only that “police were inter-
ested.” But then last week my old friend
C. H. Rolph, himself an ex-Chief Inspector
of Police and a member of the editorial
staff of the “New Statesman,” came out in
that journal with a plea for the estab-
lishment of a complete national fingerprint
registry. He claimed that the immense
gain to criminal investigation and the pre-
vention of delinquency was self-evident,
but opined that the National Council for
Civil Liberties would denounce the pro-
posal as “the first step toward a police
State.”
No doubt he is right about this, for
ever since pioneer police scientist Juan
Vucetich first proposed a general register,
based on the fingerprint system, of the
entire population of the Argentine over
half a century ago, the idea has met with
violent public hostility.
Vucetich was made to hand over all
documents, files, and apparatus and was
banished with a meagre pension. He
died not long afterwards impoverished and
embittered, having in a fit of melancholy
destroyed the manuscript of his
unpublished “Comprehensive History of
Identification.”
It is doubtful whether there has been
any diminution in public prejudice any-
where in the world since his death. It
is notable that the Western Australian
scheme is an entirely voluntary one. And
it is significant that when W.A. Premier
Brand introduced the scheme he stressed
that “the record of civilian prints would be
kept completely separate from the criminal
files.” No explanation was given for this
extraordinary segregation in the classifica-
tion system. But it clearly represents no
more than a concession to popular super-
stition involving an unnecessary and point-
less duplication of files.
It is probably true that the idea of
general fingerprinting was originally con-
ceived primarily as a means of remedying
one of the major deficiencies in the
fingerprint system as an aid to criminal
investigation. For the fact that identifica-
tion is only possible if the criminal who
leaves a fingerprint at the scene of a crime
has already been registered has frustrated
countless investigations. But this is by no
means the only advantage to be derived
from instituting and maintaining a general
register.
Thus Vucetich himself pointed out the
value such a register would have as a
means of enabling the authorities to
identify the victims of natural disasters,
accidents, and wars. It would also ensure
rapid identification of amnesia victims,
those who fall dead in the streets and
claimants to disputed estates. And it could
well be used to prevent many types of
fraud involving forged signatures. Rolph
incidentally notes that the Tichborne Case
and the tragic story of Adolf Beck could
never have happened had a general finger-
print register existed.
But it is probably in relation to the in-
vestigation and prevention of crime that
the most striking benefits would accrue.
Consider, in this connection, the English
Blackburn Baby Murder case in 1948. A
child of three years and eleven months
was removed from a hospital ward in
Blackburn, Lancashire, raped, and brutally
murdered. The only clue to the murderer’s
identity were fingerprints. Yet a search
of the one and a quarter million prints at
Scotland Yard, all the local fingerprint
collections in Great Britain as well as
identification bureaus throughout the
world proved fruitless.
Finally the police set out to obtain the
fingerprints of all male inhabitants of
Blackburn over the age of sixteen. But
in order to overcome public resistance
they had to agree to stringent limitations.
No one had to report to the police station
or was compelled to submit to fingerprint-
ing. The prints were obtained on a volun-
tary basis by a house-to-house collection.
It was agreed that the prints would not
be checked against the lists of men wanted
for other offences and would not be added
to the fingerprint file. They would be
used exclusively for comparison with the
murderer’s prints and then destroyed.
The massive operation which resulted
in the arrest and conviction of the mur-
derer took three months. Yet had uni-
versal fingerprint registration been in
force he might have been traced within
three days. And there is no doubt that
he was an extremely dangerous person to
be at large. He was in fact strongly sus-
pected of another child murder, although
the police had insufficient evidence to
prove it.
It is indicative of the irrational char-
acter of the public attitude to the crime
problem that although demands for sterner
penalties are constantly heard few voices
are raised on behalf of a, national finger-
print registry. Yet all the evidence sug-
gests that efficient detection is the only
effective deterrent to crime and that harsh
penalties have little influence on crime
rates.


FORUM 2
Profile in courage
The permanent drama involved in permanent drama
By REID DOUGLAS
AN enduring cliche in personnel man-
agement is that the ultimately suc-
cessful executive is the one who can
fail and yet remain courageous. There
must be few men in Australia who illus-
trate this as effectively as Neil Hutchison,
M.A. (Oxon), now Director of Drama and
Features for the ABC and the most power-
ful grey eminence in Australian drama.
The first Elizabethan Theatre Trust
Director was Hugh Hunt. He resigned,
regretting, in his now forgotten little book,
“Towards An Australian Drama,” that he
had not been given the necessary
autonomy. The chairman of the Trust,
Dr. Coombs, was taking no chances with
his second appointment. He wanted an
efficient administrator, but someone who
was neither going to rock the boat nor
comment in public places about the
opinions of others. In the circumstances,
his choice on the advice of Sir Charles
Moses could not have been better.
It was at the request of Sir Charles
that Hutchison agreed to be seconded
into the vacant position and was
announced by Dr. Coombs as being “On
loan from the ABC.” This was a public-
relations shift to ensure both that Hutchi-
son’s true vocation in radio was under-
stood and that his authority within the
Elizabethan Trust was tempered.
As Executive Director, Hutchison did
two things. He closed the Elizabethan
Players, a group which was beginning to
resemble a genuine ensemble, and he
released Elsie Beyer. Both had become
something of an embarrassment.
As a nurse, Miss Beyer had seen the
elder Tennent partner through his final
illness and had subsequently been
bequeathed a sizable parcel of shares in
the English management. Her enthusiasm
and private means had enabled her to
manage the tours of both the John Alden
Company and the Arts Council for a
minimal salary. Occasionally she did it
for nothing.
She became Dr. Coombs’ main adviser
in the formation of his Elizabethan
Theatre Trust and frequently accompanied
him in the early days to view productions
and to offer comment on the artists. Her
energetic influence in the Trust became
an embarrassment and she Had To Go.
The axing of the Trust’s first and only
attempt to develop a major acting com-
pany was Hutchison’s responsibility. That
the project had not been well conceived
or managed was increasingly obvious, but
with skilled and experienced theatre
administration the crisis could have been
avoided. However, it needed a man of
more insight into contemporary drama
management than Hutchison. His con-
tribution was to- carefully prepare the
way for a muffled public and professional
reaction. Instead of the major failure
that it was, the event passed as being
somehow unfortunate but merely another
necessary step in the direction of a native
Australian drama.
His one attempt to impose his own
professional judgment on a major venture
ended unhappily. After the Trust Players
had been abandoned, a group of enthusi-
asts headed by Dr. de Vahl Davis planned
to launch a professional repertory in the
Sydney University Union Theatre. They
advertised for a Director, and a number
of applicants, including Alan Harvey, the
accomplished producer-manager from Can-
berra Repertory, responded. The com-
mittee chose Harvey but had reckoned
without Mr. Hutchison. His choice was
a young actor, Brian D. Barnes, almost
without experience as a producer or in
the specialist field of repertory theatre.
The choice was a curious one. Barnes was
a member of the Religious Drama Society,
an Anglican group in which Hutchison
had interested himself.
Dr. Davis told me: “We were told
that we should have Barnes as our Direc-
tor. If we didn’t, then the Elizabethan
Trust could find us no financial assis-
tance. We needed the assistance.” If
the recommendation was a curious one, it
was also unsuccessful. Without know-
ledge of how a professional repertory was
managed, Barnes quickly bankrupted the
venture. Hutchison had not ensured that
his inexperienced protege had sufficient
counselling from the Elizabethan Trust
experts. True, the two men in the organis-
ation with any repertory background,
Robert Quentin and Tom Brown, were
probably not anxious to offer the necessary
advice. At the time of the failure of the
Barnes project their own Old Tote
Theatre was well past the initial planning
stage and the energies of Dr. de Vahl
Davis were eventually absorbed on the
social committee.
No great show of courage was needed
for that particular failure because the con-
nection between the Barnes appointment
and the Old Tote was apparent only to
professional eyes. It is easier just not to
remember seeing such curious coincidences
than to risk antagonising future employ-
ment with the Trust/ABC Establishment.
I once published a Current Affairs Bulletin
which listed what seemed to me to be some
of the Trust’s miscalculations in N.S.W.
The Trust’s Publicity Department gal-
lumped into action and fired off a letter
to “The Australian.” The letter was signed
over the P.R.’s private address and re-
vealed no professional connection with the
Elizabethan Trust. The opinion of the
Director of Victorian Adult Education,
who was actively supporting my argu-
ments, was dismissed as “of the Belsen-
McCarthy-Ku Klux Klan color.” And
my own professional standing was lucky
to get off with merely “boyish.” A few
days later Neil Hutchison also of
course as a private rather than profes-
sional Trust citizen wrote a touching letter
against all criticism. The Elizabethan
Trust, he assured us, was full of “sensitive
and intelligent people.”
In this kind of “professional” environ-
ment Hutchison’s support of Barnes was
not publicly discussed. Haag has been a
somewhat more successful protege. As
Hutchison’s successor, his position was
advertised, not overseas of course there
was no need to bother with the expense of
that but advertised nevertheless. A
number of people applied and it was an-
nounced by Dr. Coombs that the whole
matter was being arranged by a firm of
professional-management consultants.
Haag was appointed. His reputation did
not extend beyond that of being an opera
producer and his appointment was an-
nounced by Dr. Coombs in the terms
which would herald the engagement of an
office boy: Haag was to be an Executive
Director “On trial for a period.” Once
again there was going to be no chance
for a new broom to sweep clean or any
nonsense like that.
As an administrator, Haag has not been
able to counter criticism effectively and,
by inexperience and temperament, lacks
the executive efficiency of his predecessor
and sponsor. His major achievement in
three years has been to quietly end the
“permanent” Opera Company just as Hut-
chison had ended the Trust Players. As
he has had much more insight into the
difficulties of sustaining a career in Aus-
tralian opera than either Coombs or
Hutchison, it was probably not his own
first choice.
Hutchison’s tenure as “Executive
Director-On-Loan” was comparatively
brief. Having completed the two main
tasks set for him, he returned to the ABC
and promotion. Within the ABC he is
regarded as an efficient administrator and
if two of his major achievements are no
more than the TV “Purple Jacaranda” and
the continuance of the radio marathon
“Blue Hills,” at least (so the ABC tell us)
they are Australian.
Paradoxically it was with his final with-
drawal from the Elizabethan Trust lime-
light that Hutchison began his superla-
tively successful thrust within Dr. Coombs’
organisation. He is now Trust
Board member in charge of drama, Trust/
ABC representative on the Sydney Opera
House Committee, and member of Dr.
Coombs’ new Drama Foundation. With
the passing of time his old boss Sir Charles
was taking a less active interest and Dr.
Coombs had become increasingly pre-
occupied with ballet. Lacking strong
leadership, the Elizabethan Trust policy


»*
ocwfiOefe' Success !
PLAN YOUR SALES CONFERENCES,
CONVENTIONS & RECEPTIONS AT A
HOTEL
IN CANBERRA. Canberra-Rex Hotel: Australia’s
finest convention centre. Spacious areas to accom-
modate up to 600 guests. Accommodation, service
and cuisine to international standards. All areas
and rooms fully air-conditioned.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Affording convention and reception
areas for up to 400 people. Centrally situated.
Rooms, service, cuisine to exacting standards.
IN SYDNEY. Carlton-Rex Hotel: Situated in the
heart of Sydney and offering international standards
of service. Four magnificent reception areas cater
for every type of function: weddings, cocktail parties,
banquets, private dinners. Fully air-conditioned.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Air-conditioned reception areas for
conventions, sales conferences, trade showings and
weddings. Beautiful appointments and facilities.
Full particulars from Functions Manager
Carlton-Rea Hotel: 56 Castle-
reagh Streot, Sydney. Phone
28-5541.
Cenberra-Rei Hotel: North-
bourne Avenue, Canberra City.
Phone 4-5311.
Ainslie-Rei Hotel: Canberra:
Cnr. Limestone and Ainslie
Avenues, Canberra. Phone
4-3351.
BondMtei Hotel: Cnr. Beach
Road and Glenayr Ave., Bondi
Sydney. Phone 30-7247.
or any Rox Hotel
L 264
was open to more interpretation. As the
only professional from the entertainment
industry on Dr. Coombs’ Board and with
Haag as Executive Director, Neil Hutchi-
son was only too willing to help.
As the Elizabethan Trust member with
a particular interest in drama, Hutchison
has been active in a number of attempts
to assist new Australian playwrights.
Within the ABC it was “Purple Jaca-
randa,” “Blue Hills,” and the current TV
series, promoted by 32-sheet hoardings.
Within the Elizabethan Trust there had
been the appointment of something called
“An officer in charge of looking after the
interests of Australian playwrights.” This,
like the position of “Director of Drama
For Australia,” was quietly abandoned
after the shouting had died. Various
methods of reading and commenting on
submitted scripts were tried. Hutchison was
directly responsible for a brief season of
new scripts at the Union Theatre—but his
ABC television producers proved to be
inadequate to stage work and the season
was a failure. The idea of workshopping
new scripts had been the bait of Professor
Quentin’s “Playwrights Studio,” a failure
abandoned before the final sessions some
years ago. A later scheme launched by
the same colleagues, this time for pro-
fessional readings at the Old Tote, was
also quietly forgotten.
After the most recent failure, an in-
dependent organisation, PACT Co-
operative, approached the Trust for assis-
tance to enlarge their own non-profit ser-
vices to playwrights. Scripts were being
read professionally unlike the Eliza-
bethan Trust, where, for some months, a
playwright would have his work vetted
and commented upon by a lady on the
social committee. PACT wanted to offer
professional workshop productions, a
necessary step in the development of both
new playwright and new play.
Applications were duly made and the
usual affable hopes held that the Eliza-
bethan Trust Board w.ould view the matter
kindly.
They viewed the matter kindly, off and
on, for over a year and no decision has
yet been reached. Almost 12 months after
the PACT scheme had been proposed the
Elizabethan was delighted to announce
that the University of N.S.W. Drama
Foundation, which controls drama in
N.S.W. for the Trust, had received a large
amount from the Gulbenkian purse for a
scheme exactly the same as that proposed
by PACT. Their sixth or seventh attempt
to sustain an efficient scheme to assist
new playwrights had been planned before
the PACT application was made. However,
the weaker organisation had been effect-
ively beaten to the post.
The Elizabethan Trust/ABC lobby has
always had control of the Sydney Opera
House Committee. Michael Baume in
THE BULLETIN (April 2) recalled the
many improvisations and reversals of
policy of this committee. It was the Trust
group which allowed the original concep-
tion to wander from a series of repertory
opera and drama theatres into the current
awkward cross of touring stages with
redundant repertory equipment. The
Elizabethan Trust has its own workshops
run by a profitable subsidiary company,
so why, they reasoned, should space be
found for such things in the Opera House?
Once Martin Carr, a Stage Director of
Covent Garden, had reminded us of his
original scathing report on the project’s
inadequacies and miscalculations, it seemed
to me that all that remained was for some-
one to point out the connection between
the Elizabethan Trust/ABC lobby and the
result of their expert advice.
Like the other gentlemen on the Opera
House Committee, the Elizabethan Trust
Board, and the new Drama Foundation,
radioman Hutchison’s energies are in-
volved in an amateur capacity. Undoubt-
edly, he would accept this as part of the
old Oxonian tradition of gentlemanly
dabbling in artistic matters: amateur con-
trol without professional involvement.
Equally undoubtedly this is the creative
drought which has kept Australian drama
out in the “Purple Jacaranda” country.
Both within the ABC Drama Depart-
ment and the Elizabethan Trust, Hutch-
ison is edgy about effective criticism and
advises against the employment of offend-
ing professionals. In a commercial project
stimulated by competition this sensitivity
would be legitimate. But Hutchison’s
ABC Drama Department and the Eliza-
bethan Trust plus the Drama Foundation
and the Opera House Committee are now
a cartel which has , created a virtual
monopoly of key professional employment
in our non-commercial drama, opera, and
ballet, at least in New South Wales,
The Elizabethan Theatre Trust, with
less acquiescence to amateur theories and
a brisker internal dialogue, would have
been a very different and more successful
organisation. Both the Elizabethan Players
and the permanent Opera Company could
have been vigorously reorganised. The
many unsuccessful improvisations to assist
new playwrights could have been avoided
and we would have seen further plays
from our established Lawlers, Beynons,
Seymours, and Mathews. Certainly inter-
nal criticism of professional quality would
have avoided predictable fiascos like the
Rushcutters Bay “Henry V,” the Adelaide
Festival “St. Joan” and' “Carmen,” and
both the Sydney Union seasons. The
amateur Opera House Committee could
have been stimulated with precisely the
same kind of abrasive professional insight,
Courage in the face of repeated disap-
pointment is a moving spectacle. It can
also be dangerous when too much power
rests in too few hands.


A\
h ii
VI t
m
.Vi ;
W'A*
\
m
! i\
/
■<
m
%
%
v
«
£RU
VE«
TO
! .
f\ <*' / 5 „
- • ' v\t : *P 1
.; ' • . JU 1
mv
V;{\ ' '
C/UtGOM A STt R-
'. ■ . : . ■■ ■" ' ■
im *
-
Palletair is currentl/ operating between Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
TAA Palletair
the jet-age way to move cargo
TAA’s new mechanised system moves cargo faster,
safer, than ever before. It’s called Palletair. The
jet-age way to move cargo.
And here’s how it works.
Shipments are loaded on extra-strong pallets. Like in
the picture. Then tied down with a new kind of
security net. (Flat webbing of steel-strong nylon.)
So nothing can budge.
Special equipment lifts the pallets up to the aircraft,
slides them along rollers, and locks each one tightly
into position. Each pallet becomes part of the floor of
our big-door DC4s, and can’t move. Our turnaround
(the time occupied by unloading and reloading air-
craft) is now twice as fast. So we have more flights.
And more flights mean we can offer you greater
convenience.
With Palletair, physical handling of your goods is
reduced to the absolute minimum. So they’re also
delivered faster.
Ask about TAA’s jet-age service. It will be well
worth your time. And money.
TAAJAUf CARGO
For faster, surer shipment anywhere
in Australia or the world.
TAA493'66


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Survival by Statistics
By J. C. KAYE
SOCKS is a tortoise-shell cat who offers
her white stomach for tickling by
anyone walking at a quiet time into
the foyer of St. Martin’s Theatre, South
Yarra. Socks has some right to purr;
theatrical life can be uncertain but her
home is secure. St. Martin’s, after 35
years, is the most successful repertory
theatre in Australia and one of the most
remarkable in the world. The Tiv may
close, Melbourne’s commercial theatres
may goose-pimple in the economic cold,
but St. Martin’s grows.
It is in St. Martin’s Lane (which the
Melbourne City Council has named after
it), off Domain Rd., about If miles from
the centre of the city. Flats and small
houses, many of them chic, surround it.
You come across it suddenly, a 10-year-
old brick building with a convex front
and simple entrance. Beyond the foyer,
with its portraits and awards around the
walls is room for 400 customers in amphi-
theatre seating.
Here, with no subsidy, the St. Martin’s
Theatre Company present 13 plays a year,
each for a three-week season. Despite a
permanent staff of 16, including a full-
time stage designer (Paul Kathner) and
running costs (apart from actors’ salaries)
of $l5OO a week, it keeps in the black.
people from other States
come to see how it is done. Entrepreneurs
also pay respectful calls. St. Martin’s does
what it can to inform the first, and politely
holds off the second. A tradition remains
intact.
The main force in the creation of what
is now called St. Martin’s was Brett Ran-
dall, an Englishman who came to Austra-
lia in 1925 at the age of 39. He was an old-
style man of the theatre actor, producer,
manager adept at anything from straight
roles to G & S, to music-hall. As manager
of the Holloway Empire, in London, he
liked to recall, he once hired Charles
Chaplin at £1 a week.
Theatre sank to its knees in Melbourne
in the Depression, but in 1931, in partner-
ship with another actor, Hal Percy, Ran-
dall formed the Melbourne Little Theatre,
with the ambition of creating a true com-
munity theatre for Melbourne. The pair
ran into debt for £l4 worth of carpenter-
ing to open with “The Fanatics,” by Miles
Malleson, at the Central Hall, in Lonsdale
Street. They had no backers and depended
on the take to pay their bills. No one
in the cast was paid, and all shared the
work. A successful run paid the bills and
even allowed for money to be set aside to
advance the main project.
The next move was to the kiosk in
Fawkner Park, with a small movable stage
that the company had to pack out of the
way after Sunday rehearsals to make room
for some dance or other on Monday, and
then rebuild for Tuesday’s performance.
But after 18 productions, including four
new plays by Australians, the kiosk was
no longer available.
Hal Percy turned to radio work. Ran-
dall, after three months’ negotiations,
obtained the disused St. Chad’s Anglican
Church on the site of the present theatre.
The building which seated 126 was then
derelict. Randall built the stage and pro-
scenium himself, got hold of second-hand
seats, and fixed them to the floor himself.
Randall opened there in February, 1934,
with George Kaiser’s expressionist drama
“From Morning to Midnight,” a cast of
25 (13 of them doubling) and seven scene
changes on the 15ft. by 12ft. stage.
He continued within these physical
restrictions for 20 years, with more than
200 plays of all types. At first they were
presented for only one or two nights.
Runs gradually extended to three weeks
a production. The backbone of financial
support was 1500 subscribers, with 1300
more on the waiting list. Actors were still
unpaid. Some were pure amateurs; others
were professionals wanting to work and
keep before the public between engage-
ments.
In 1954 the Melbourne Little Theatre
was so much a part of Melbourne life
that plans went ahead to rebuild and
establish Melbourne’s first new playhouse
for 25 years. The public bought £30,000
of six percent debentures. The State
Government, under Labor Premier John
Cain, put up £20,000 over four years.
A Foyer Fund raised £6OOO with fetes
and parties and other traditional methods.
Dame Sybil Thorndike launched an
appeal. In all, about 1000 people helped.
Private individuals and firms provided 200
seats for the new theatre at £7 a seat.
While St. Chad’s was being demolished
and the new theatre built, the Melbourne
Little Theatre moved to the Arrow at
Middle Park and presented additional
plays at the National Theatre at Eastern
Hill. The new playhouse, still known as
the Melbourne Little Theatre and still
with unpaid casts, opened in August,
1956. It had 4000 subscribers. It began a
move toward full professionalism, and
when this was completed in 1962 the
“little theatre” concept was abandoned
and the name “St. Martin’s” was adopted.
There are now 5500 subscribers, with
a waiting list of 750.
Brett Randall died in 1963 at the age
of 79. Hal Percy is also dead. Brett’s son
Peter, a big handsome man in his late
forties with thick, prematurely white
hair, Irene Mitchell, who has been asso-
ciated with the enterprise for 30 years,
and George Fairfax, 38, a former law-
student bitten by theatre, are now the
directors of the St. Martin’s Theatre Com-
pany. All are successful producers.
The company owns the theatre and lets
it at a nominal rental to the St. Martin’s
Theatre Guild. This guild retains the com-
pany to select plays and stage all produc-
tions. The company pays all the expenses
of each season. The guild collects all the
subscriptions and box-office revenues and
reimburses the company. In this inter-
locking the three company directors also
have seats on the Guild board of 13, which
includes Mrs. Hal Percy.
Subscribers now pay $9.20. This entitles
them to one seat at each of eight successive
productions. Two-fifths of all seats are
kept for box-office sales at 30c a seat
above the subscription rate (80c on Satur-
days). Whether the theatre can continue
to hold to these rates is now under dis-
cussion.
After each of the year’s 13 productions,
costs are audited. As Peter Randall
explains: If we do well on a play we
can spend more on another. If we do
badly we pull in our horns. We’re statis-
tics crazy here.” The three company
directors let their tastes range wide in
play selection. Recently there have been
Ibsen, the Voyage Theatre from England,
and light comedy:
The art is not to please everyone all
the time, but to please everyone enough
of the time. “We accept that no one sub-
scriber is likely to enjoy equally well all
the productions he has paid for,” Randall
says.
Shopkeepers may dislike “The Master
Builder.” Prudes may protest at “Dylan.”
Intellectuals may be bored by farce. But
so long as joys and pains are fairly equally
spread around, the subscription list
remains pleasingly full.
TELEVISION
Dostoyevsky for
Insomniacs
THIS week in Sydney and Melbourne,
ABC Television’s latest serial, “The
Brothers Karamazov,” ended a six-
week run. Barely mentioned, given less
than its deserved praise by reviewers or
the ABC, it had fine Australian actor Ray
Barrett as a principal, with John Barrie
(seen elsewhere as Sergeant Cork) and
other accomplished players. Earlier this
year George Moore’s “Esther Waters” was
similarly treated, tucked away after the
late news, possibly with the charitable idea
that only insomniacs could enjoy Dosto-
yevsky, or Moore. The theory must be
that early viewers want such exciting
fairy tales as “Man In Room 17” and “Dr.
Kildare.”
Such hesitancy in programming and
talking about items of possible quality is
not confined to ABC Television. In two
recent weeks, Channel 9 showed a pleas-
ant satire called “Falling In Love,” with
Michael Flanders as raconteur. It began
at 11 p.m. At times varying from 11.35
to 11.55 p.m., Channel 7 in Sydney began
a 25-minute, once-a-week rendition from
“The Canterbury Tales.” And “Fighting
Words” in both cities now begins at any
time between 11 and 11.45. If you look
for more than pap on television, you have
to look hard among the programs, and
stay late. True to form, this week ABC


Television begins a series on Australian
management at 10.10 p.m.
I would prefer to see some of the
heavier going on television at 8.30 at
night, 9.30 at the latest. After those hours,
and after an hour or two of the usual
series programs, the mind is usually too
drugged to move into a higher gear. I
realise this is a selfish thought. The tele-
vision channels would rather place their
“pop” material between 7 and 9 p.m. to
reach audiences which have been trained
to view during those hours and then
switch off. Attempting to retain, and pos-
sibly inform, the audiences is downright
apostasy, I gather.
One example of a program I would
sooner see, later is “Showcase ’66,” which
began last week. It is to run 26 weeks in-
stead of last year’s 13, and this time it
is better for theomission of two “acts.”
I refer to compere Gordon Boyd’s uneasy
habit of oversmile, and Hector Crawford’s
final appearance to announce the night’s
winners, in the manner of a Caesar re-
turning to Rome.
This year it is pleasing to report that
Mr. Boyd is acting quietly, even demurely,
announcing the acts without wreathing the
performers in dimpled smiles. And Mr.
Crawford makes his appearance seated at
a table, says his pieces, and vanishes.
But what does that add up to? “Show-
case ’66” is no strain on the imagination
or the brain. Anyone could watch it
comfortably and enjoy it as well, in any
state of euphoria, drowsiness, or loose
sobriety. It is to my mind exactly the
show for 10 p.m. to midnight, when it
could have a different but possibly bigger
audience.
FRANK ROBERTS
MUSIC
Half-Flamenco
Carlos Montoya, Town Hall, Sydney.
Leonine Consort and Bodenweiser Dance
Group. Cell Block Theatre, Sydney.
THE program note declared that
“Flamenco must come from the
heart.” In the case of Mr. Montoya,
a major part of it also came from the
amplification system, the chirpy stage man-
ner (complete with Ludwig Erhard hand-
wavings) and from the frequent recourse
to gimmickry which managed to obscure
most of the evening’s music. There was
some interesting music presented especi-
ally when the tempo dropped below the
customary furioso of Flamenco but the
accompanying distractions did little to en-
hance its position of insignificance during
the concert.
It was the old story of folk-music putting
on a black tie: Woody Guthrie becomes
Peter, Paul, and Mary, Gaelic folk-songs
appear as Patrick O’Hagan, and violent,
blood-’n-guts' Flamenco is transformed by
Montoya into convenient two-minute units
of guitar pyrotechnics. This is rarely the
fault of the performer; rather, it is simply
the unfortunate, inevitable outcome of the
promotion of an “ethnic” pop culture.
Mr. Montoya possesses a formidable
technique which he fluently employs at
every possible opportunity. Usually in the
form of rapid scale running, these embel-
lishments serve to fill out the passages
which would normally be harmonised on
the lower strings of the instrument. Admit-
tedly, this style of playing is a feature of
Promising Opera Season
THE ELIZABETHAN THEATRE
TRUST has announced that it will
present “II Trovatore,” “The Barber
of Seville,” and “Boris Godounov” during
its 1966 season in Brisbane, Sydney, Can-
berra, and Melbourne. “Trovatore” will
got to Hobart, but there will be no season
in Adelaide. A fourth, contemporary,
opera is being planned for Sydney and
Melbourne. John Cargher comments:
A story in the March issue of the maga-
zine “Opera” brings reminders of past
Elizabethan Trust mistakes which will not
be repeated this year, if preliminary re-
ports prove correct.
Reporting on an amateur production
of “Faust” in January at the Baths Hall,
Epsom, England (the local equivalent
would be the YMCA Auditorium in Balla-
rat), it says: “Emphasis was on lighting,
with cast groupings around three rostra,”
and continues to treat the amateur cast
kindly in order of quality. After Siebel,
Marguerite and Valentine, it mentions
Faust: “Edward Byles deserves credit for
his performance.” Lest we forget: Edward
Byles was the “star” the Trust imported
for its 1963 production of “Faust,” which
was based on lighting and cast grouping
around a rostrum!
While plans for the Trust’s 1966 season
are not completely final the contem-
porary opera for Sydney and Melbourne
is not named enough facts have been
released to show that a break from past
errors is being sought and, unless or until
we find differently next August, we must
accept these plans as extremely promising.
I am assured that there will be no ros-
trums! Only one “star” is being brought
out, and in his case the description bears
some relation to fact. Donald Smith is
returning to sing Manrico in Verdi’s
“Trovatore”, a part in which he has
achieved considerable success overseas.
He will be supported more than ably by
Lauris Elms as Azucena, though Rosemary
Gordon and Alexander Major are as yet
unknown quantities.
“Boris Godounov” (in the original
Moussorgsky version) will be the big
gamble of the season. With the ABC
orchestras and the expected superb Aus-
tralian chorus, half the excellence of this
Boris seems assured. Whether Neil
Warren-Smith can sustain the leading part
over a long period remains to be seen.
I am inclined to think him a good enough
singer and actor, at least to start it well.
The other repertoire opera is “The
Barber of Seville,” with a local cast,
the backbone of all Trust opera seasons.
Flamenco, but as the guitar has the pri-
mary function of “laying down time” for
the various dances of a Juerga (jamboree),
one would expect that the solid, rhythmic
repetition of characteristic chord patterns
would be the foundation element of this
essentially gipsy form of music. Without
these references to the noisy and aggressive
dancing, the program seldom transmitted
the excitement which we have come to
expect from the music of Southern Spain.
The most attractive facet of Montoya’s
performance was his use of the incidental
noises inherent in the spirited playing of
the instrument. A variety of clicks and
drummed notes were produced from the
body of the guitar, and these provided
fascinating cross-accents with the rhythms
of the pieces themselves. This technique
was particularly successful in “Zambra,”
where the Moorish melody was supported
by sparse harmonies interwoven with a
background of haunting rhythmic punctu-
ation.
The singers of the Leonine Consort have
been the finest vocal group in Australia for
quite some time. Their choice of repertoire
has always been carefully balanced and
worth while. In the bracket of five Italian
madrigals presented at their recent recital,
they ventured toward the extremes of the
Renaissance polyphonic school a period
in music which is the basic source of
their programs. Two fiercely chromatic
madrigals by Gesualdo (the first true
avant-gardist before Monteverdi) were sung
with chilling strength and clarity. Charles
Colman’s direction here was authoritative
and well defined, although on occasions he
allowed the two tenors to dominate the
texture in the more passionate sections of
the works.
The electronic bump and grind of Karl-
hienz Stockhausen can be taken as sincere
or tongue-in-cheek with equal validity. I
prefer to think of him as the court jester
of contemporary music. It’s more fun that
way. To his “Mobiles,” the Bodenweiser
group presented a ballet which relied on
the constantly changing shape of the large
rings of elastic fabric with which they
danced. As an impression of the occilo-
scope patterns which produced the music,
this device was extremely effective. As a
whole, the ballet was a testimony both to
the patience, inventiveness, and skill of the
choreographer and to the mastery of
technique which the dancers displayed.
Earlier in the evening, Ronald Woodcock
did valiant battle with Bartok’s Sonata for
Solo Violin, emerging half-hearted victor
over the drab and directionless work he
chose to play.'
DAVID SALTER
THEATRE
Heroic Proportions
Mother Courage. Brecht, New Theatre.
Sydney.
Peter O’Shaughnessy as Bernard Shaw on
“Love and War.” Q Lunch Hour Theatre.
THE action of “Mother Courage”
stretches through 11 years of the
Thirty Years’ War. Anna Fierling,
nicknamed Mother Courage, makes her
living from the war, selling provisions to


the Protestant Army from her covered
wagon. When she is captured she plies her
trade with the Catholic Army. With her
are her three children, each of a different
father. Eilif, the elder son, is brave and
brutal. These qualities make him valued in
wartime, but when he performs an act of
brutality during an interval of peace he
is executed. Swiss Cheese, the second son,
is honest and loyal. He dies defending the
regimental cashbox from the enemy. Kat-
rin, who is dumb, loses her life when she
warns a sleeping village of the approach
of the enemy by beating a drum. Mother
Courage is left to pull the wagon alone.
In staging “Mother Courage,” a play of
heroic proportions, the New Theatre Com-
pany under the direction of Edmund
Allison has undertaken an ambitious task.
Although the production has many merits,
it does require some heroism on the part
of the audience to appreciate them. But
perhaps this is a measure of its success,
since the object of Brecht’s famous “Alien-
ation-effect” was to bring the audience to
attention instead of encouraging them to
relax and enjoy themselves. Does this
strenuous theory, then, work on the castor-
oil principle that the less you enjoy a
Brecht play the more likely it is to do you
good?
However, the “alienation” produced by
“Mother Courage” is not just a matter of
Brechtian devices such as the explanatory
captions displayed at the beginning of a
scene to tell the audience what will happen
next, so that they can concentrate their
attention on the meaning of the events.
These devices are used in “The Caucasian
Chalk Circle” without producing any alien-
ation. But that is a yea-saying play in
which the simple virtues of love and cour-
age are triumphantly affirmed. “Mother
Courage” alienates the audience in a much
more radical way. It is Brecht’s “King
Lear,” a play hovering on the brink of
nihilism.
Tough, brave, leather-skinned, Patti
Asange gives an astringent performance in
the very demanding role of Mother Cour-
age. Carole Skinner plays the mute Kat-
rin with remarkable sensitivity? They are
well supported by two broad comedy per-
formances by Marie Armstrong and Norm
Slater as the prostitute and the cook.
Yvonne Francart’s Brueghelian sets and
costumes were inspired by the Model Book
lent by the Berliner Ensemble. It is a pity,
though, that the sets could not have been
changed rapidly without lowering the cur-
tain, for this is a long play and it should
move swiftly like modern Shakespearian
productions.
Peter O’Shaughnessy’s impersonation of
Bernard Shaw is a very polished perform-
ance. With a luxuriant red beard and char-
acteristic tweed suit, his likeness to the
60-year j old Shaw is excellent. But Mr.
O’Shaughnessy’s skill lies not merely in
dressing up but in his ability to deliver
the wit and wisdom of Shaw for 40
minutes, with ease and liveliness of
manner, in a beautiful Dublin accent and
without a misplaced word or comma.
In compiling this speech on Love and
War, Peter O’Shaughnessy has carefully
joined together extracts from a number of
sources so that the joins do not show. But
of course the resulting whole does not have
the perfect articulation that distinguished
any single Shavian speech or essay. Be-
cause the limping world has finally caught
up with Shaw’s striding mind, and his-
torians are now saying the sort of things
about the Great War and the Irish Rebel-
lion that Shaw said at the time, it is hard
to imagine how outrageous he must have
seemed.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
MOTHER COURAGE
at the New Theatre,
Sydney
MOTHER COURAGE
Patti Asange
EIIIF, HER ELDER SON
Lionel Haft
THE COOK
Norm Slater
AN OLD COLONEL
Frank Curtain
ATRIN, HER DAUGHTER
Corole Skinner
THE CHAPLAIN
John Mulligan
SWISS CHEESE,
HER YOUNGER SON
Eric Long


RETIRE ON
$ BO,OOO
tax free superannuation
from
AMP
si!
I
Largest underwriter of superannuation in Australia
A message to all
self-employed persons:
Glance at the figures in these schedules and select
those nearest to your age and income. How do the
compound interest returns from your taxable in-
vestments in shares, debentures and property com-
pare with these figures? If they compare unfavour-
ably, get in touch with your A.M.P. representative.
He will show you how the four taxation concessions
which apply to Superannuation for Self-Employed
Persons can result in returns equivalent to the per-
centages shown plus immediate Life cover, plus a
backing as strong as the strongest “blue chip”
investment.
Read from Schedule A if you ARE NOT using the full $BOO per
annum taxation deduction, including superannuation and life assur-
ance. allowed under Section 82 H of the Income Tax Act.
SCHEDULE A Retirement Age 65
Age Taxable Incomes prior to receipt of
Starting interest and/or dividends
Read from Schedule B if you ARE using the full $BOO per annum
taxation deduction, including superannuation and life assurance,
allowed under Section 82 H of the Income Tax Act.
SCHEDULE B Retirement Age 65
Age Taxable Incomes prior to receipt of
Starting interest and or dividends
(ED
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding $1,600 million which the Society seeks to invest to
the greatest benefit to members.
D 5968


Still Hope For God
SHORT STORY BY MANNING CLARK
I AM still not quite sure what it was
that drew me to him. I remember
thinking as I sat at the table of
that street cafe in Warsaw watching the
never-ending flow of people pass by that
here was a man who was not like the
English tourists, who either joked when
confronted with all that was painful in •
the human situation or asked me whether
I would care to add a note of Australian
virility to the conversation. I remember,
too, thinking as I looked at him that
perhaps here was a man who might be
able to explain much that was a mystery
to me in this city; why, for example, two
neighboring streets were named: New
World Street and Resurrection Street. I
remember even thinking that perhaps he
was the man on whom I might risk that
question about pity and tenderness,
whether he thought that here in Poland
there was a people’s democracy which
had also preserved the image of Christ.
And I wanted to ask someone who was
interested in what it all had been whether
here in Poland the human miracle might
occur, and that after the people had got
their labor-savers and their pill their lives
would not become empty and stupid
yes, and boring and sad.
So when he asked, shyly and indeed with
such diffidence that I protnptly avoided
his eyes, whether it was “Mozhno” to
join me at my table, I said it would
be a great pleasure for me, and, after
trying each other in English and Ger-
man, we decided we could at least com-
municate something to each other in
English if I promised to keep off those
Aussie words I love to use when speaking
about those things which move' me more
than it suits a man to say. And I liked, too,
the tone of his remarks in the opening
exchanges before we had settled on our
subject for the day; he could joke with-
out being frivolous, or cynical, and, at
the same time, he could avoid those
boring lectures the humorless intellectuals
here, complete with their huge sunglasses,
seemed called on to deliver to visitors
from the west. A tourist easily becomes
the prey of the local bores, or misfits, or
the lame who clutch a stranger because
maybe he could do what no one else in
life could ever do—get them over the
stile. So I liked it when he told me
with a twinkle in his eye, which I caught,
but did not linger on, that in Poland
people say you should not be too critical
of the Government unless you want to
become a long-term tourist in the Soviet
Union.
It was while we were laughing over
that that I decided to risk 1 a more general
remark. “You think then that there is
more freedom in Poland than in Russia?”
To which he answered almost with pride:
“But of course.”
So I asked him to permit me to say
to him something which might cause him
some pain, though I hoped it would not.
And he said please do, and if, he added
with a flourish, I know the answer it will
be my duty as well as my pleasure to tell
you. So I asked why it was that if there
were fewer spiritual bullies and conform-
ists in Poland (we had trouble over those
words) there had nevertheless been such
terrible cruelty and bestiality between man
and man in Poland at the end of the war.
You know, he said, when the Russian
Army encircled Warsaw, the Polish resist-
ance movement rose to expel the Germans,
but the Russians would not so much as
lift one little finger to help them. So the
Hitlerians systematically butchered those
heroes of Warsa*w.
I told him that was one example of
human evil, hoping, I suppose, that he
would catch on to the drift of my mind
.. . . “No, not evil,” he said, “that was
politics. The Russians thought it was
capitalists fighting capitalists, and hoped
they would both destroy each other” . . .
adding, “Maybe it’s not pleasant, but,
how do you say it in English, my friend,
such is life.”
Maybe it was because I looked so de-
jected after this remark that he added
tenderly, his eyes seeming to moisten a
little: “But if you want to see the memorial
to great human evil in Warsaw, then you
must see the memorial to the Jews in
the ghetto. . . .Yes, my friend, that
is what you must see.”
I wondered whether the time had come
to ask him, diffidently and, of course,
with apologies for seeming to intrude,
whether like all sentimental people the
Poles were cruel and treacherous but
decided I couldn’t because I knew already
that vulnerable face would haunt me for
days, • so why add to his and my pain?
But, somewhat to my surprise, he almost
anticipated me. You are wondering, he
asked gently, why such terrible things
could happen in Poland . . . But, before
I could even manage a yes, he had begun
to answer his own question in his own
way . . . “That, my friend, is a long
story, and we must talk about it on our
way to the memorial.”
We met again the next afternoon over
coffee and ice-cream at the bar of the
European Hotel, and then set -out to
walk through the hot dusty streets to the
memorial. On the way we talked about
many things. He explained to me that
in Warsaw no one had any money, but
that they were happy. In the West, he
said, people were wealthy, everyone had a
car, everyone had a house, how do you
say it, Christ has been brought back into
Christmas, and we laughed gently over
this: everyone has free choice. Is Christ,
he asked with a twinkle, the symbol of free
choice? Yet, my friend, in the West you
tire not happy, and I will tell you why,
my friend . . . there are things, in life
people prefer to free choice . . . things like
the absence of the ghetto murder, is that
not better, he asked, than to be able to
choose between thirty-six flavors of dough-
nuts.
And when I asked him whether all
being poor together was the price they
might have to pay to make sure it did
not happen again, asking him this, not
to score, or cause him pain, but because
it seemed then that a perpetual greyness
may be the price we will all have to pay
when we stop tormenting each other. He
was not too happy about that, and stopped
in the street, and took me by the arm,
and said, “Here, my friend, you must
understand things are getting better all
the time.”
“But still, you do not get a passport
to go to Paris.”
“You are right, my friend. There are
no passports for Polish people . . .
but tell me, my friend, who would want
to visit a graveyard . . . and tell me who
would want to spend his holidays in a
human sewer?”
By then he had stopped again in
front of some writing on the street wall.
“Now,” he said, “I will translate it
for you. Here on 11 December, 1943, it
says, the Hitlerians shot one hundred of
my people. No ... it is not nice, my
friend . . it is not nice.”
We were silent for a time after that
until I said: “You know, you Poles remind
me of the Irish . . . You have both suf-
fered terribly from an imperialist power.
You have both preserved the Church . . .
You have some of that tenderness, some


a
To
*</
x
UHftIC
/
Be sure
the next uniform you buy
is wearing this tag ...
it means you will be wearing
the best uniform...
made from the new, soft, silky,
miracle fabric called
To rail
65Z
TETOHON
POLYESTER FIBRE
V and Viscose
CTB33
CESARELLA—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
of that pity of people who have known
terrible humiliations, and cruelty, and
swinishness . . . And, yes, in your cere-
monial, your exaggerated gestures, your
bowings, your scrapings, your kissing the
hands of women . . . there is something
pathetic in this, something mocking, too,
as though you had been so hurt by life,
so humiliated,- that you were driven to
mock at the source of life itself, at women.”
“Maybe you are right, my friend, but,
you see, for us it is different. Ceremony,
my friend, this kissing of the hand, that
was the product of one type of society. It
is, how shall I express it, a charming rem-
nant of the days of chivalry, and will
disappear when the last remnants of
feudal and bourgeois society in Poland
have been rooted out.”
By then we were coming close to the
monument and by one of those absurdities
in human behaviour I had chosen that
moment to tell a story about how some
people kill snakes in Australia with a
whip, so that we came alongside the
monument just as I was explaining how
to crack their heads off. Some human
situations can only be made bearable by
a boorish buffoonery, or so I have found.
So there we were, having to change our
mood from the hunter’s world perhaps to
the idea that this particular act of human
swinishness was one of the death throes
of a decaying social order. And as I
looked, or gaped at those stone figures
under that hot sun, the one thought
that kept recurring was that only poetry
or music or painting could illuminate such
a moment in the long drawn out human
drama of good and evil.
All I could see was a man with the
head bowed in a grief for which this
piece of stone seemed so inadequate. Any-
how, what could these men of the brave
new world tell us about the secrets of
the human heart, when they so shamelessly
boasted of their indifference to the senti-
ments of pity and terror? Another man
was reaching for the dagger of revenge,
but what use was it to kill such monsters?
And another seemed to be striving for a
better future, though I could not tell
from his face what that future was going
to be like. It all seemed terribly inade-
quate to the purpose.
I was thinking of turning to my friend
and saying with some firmness: “Look,
I could understand if the sculptor had
said I m going to show that the imagina-
tion of man’s heart was evil from the
start, because that at least would be tell-
ing us something, but this tells me nothing
about either God or man.” But it was
just as well I had not begun to speak
about those things, because the monument
had evoked quite different thoughts in
the mind of my friend. “I will tell you
something, my friend,” he said, putting
his arm around me, “the Jewish people
. . . they were always good at making
money, and the Polish people . . . they
were always bad at making money. We
Poles are not money grubbers, my
friend.” And he shrugged his shoulders.
We began to walk away from the monu-
ment, I a pace or two apart, as though
to communicate that a bond had snapped,
but he went on, not sensing my dismay:
“And now, there are no Jewish people and
so now there is no problem, my friend,”
adding with a mirthless hollow laugh that
contained a plea for understanding and
sympathy, “but still the Polish people are
very poor . . . How do you say it in
English, my friend . . . Such is life.”
And I suppose I must have begun to
look quite sad, because he asked me, quite
anxiously, and indeed almost with alarm,
whether something had upset me, and I
wanted to ask him there and then whether
he could remember that remark by the
Jewish writer Franz Kafka that there was
hope for man, but not for God, and if he
could, I wanted to add sharply I was
thinking now there may be hope for God,
but no hope for man. But I knew I could
never say this to him, not just because
of his kindness to me but because to do
it with the authority which the occasion
demanded it would be necessary to look
straight at him, and that was precisely
what I had not been able to bring myself
to do ever since he had told me quite
early in one of those rushes of confidence
during our first exchange over the coffee
and the ices that the Hitlerians had shot
away his left arm.


BOOKS
World of Edmund Wilson
By LEONIE KRAMER
The Bit Between My Teeth. Edmund
Wilson. W. H. Allen, $5.30.
THE sub-title of this book - “A Liter-
ary Chronicle of 1950-1965”—is
likely to mislead any reader who
is not familiar with Edmund Wilson’s two
earlier chronicles of the ’twenties, ’thirties,
and ’forties. He is not here presenting a
record of the literature of the past 15
years, but a record of his own literary
activities, in the form of articles and re-
views written over that period and orig-
inally published in journals and magazines.
Mr. Wilson’s approach to his subjects
and indeed to the book is informal, and
one is invited to pick up casually and at
random a view of the writer and his atti-
tuc jes.
There are virtues in this approach. Mr.
Wilson states his aim in “A Modest Self-
Tribute,” which is his introduction to the
articles. “. . . I have been working, as a
practising (sic) critic, to break down the
conventional frames, to get away from the
academic canons, that always tend to keep
literature provincial.” This is an aim with
which I have a great deal of sympathy,
but curiously it does not seem to be effect-
ively realised in this book. Nor do I see
how it could have been. For Mr. Wilson
has written into his “modest self-tribute”
a definition of purpose which is unlikely
to have been present in many of the
articles and reviews at the time when he
wrote them.
The fact is that a critic reviewing, as
he was, Myra Buttle’s “The Sweeniad” or
“Mushrooms, Russia and History,” by R.
Gordon Wasson and Valentina Pavlovna
Wasson, is much more likely to be pro-
posing to himself the aim of talking as
much sense as he can in the space he
has than of breaking down conventional
frames. There is very little evidence in
these articles that Mr. Wilson is much
concerned with theory. Rather he is pre-
occupied for the most part with the prac-
tical problem of expounding his subject.
His preliminary remarks read, therefore,
as an attempt to confer a unity of purpose
upon essays which are in fact different in
,in V;’ “ character, and in quality from
“ch other.
do n °t think this matters, since the
informality of his approach and the range
b j s interests in themselves are part of
tbe interest of the book. Inevitably in a
collection of this kind there are pieces
which do not seem to earn their place. I
would put in this category his review of
tbe mushroom book amusing and fanci-
*n bs ™ a Y but very slightly; and his
articles on The Romantic Agony, Kings-
Amis, Tolkien s Ihe Lord of the
Ri n § s > and several others. These demon-
strate all too plainly how ephemeral are
essays, neat though they may be, which
skim the suiface of their subject, or which
are merel Y descriptive. In a strange way
tbe P rese nce of much that is slight in this
book tends to undermine one’s confidence
studies which are longer and more
searching.
This is to be regretted, since there are
good things in “The Bit Between My
Teeth.” There is an account of the
Holmes-Laski correspondence which brings
to life the two men and a good deal of
their background as well. Mr. Wilson
traces with delicate precision Holme’s at-
traction toward Laski’s political ideas. A
long derogatory account of Logan Pear-
sail Smith places him as a sufferer from
“the pale style and the intellectual sterility”
which bli ght the American in Europe. On
Sheilah Graham and Scott Fitzgerald he
writ es with insight and sympathy. Beer-
bohm and Hemingway live again in Mr.
Wilson’s personal recollections of them;
while Shaw glimmers uncannily from the
of his last plays and from Miss
Patch s recollections of him.
Yet these pieces, good though they are
in their way, capture attention and inter-
est without engaging the mind. Only
occasionally does Mr. Wilson go deeply
enough into a subject for one to begin to
feel its more powerful attraction—though
the attraction, in one case, is that of dis-
taste. I refer to his two long articles on
the Marquis de Sade, which have acquired
a new interest since the controversy pro-
voked by the Murder on the Moors case.
While Mr. Wilson is content for the most
part to treat fairly lightly Sade’s exploits
and aberrations, he does attempt to tackle
the problem of his importance. Perhaps
his most cogent argument is not that Sade
“anticipated Freud in perceiving that
sexual constitution was determined at an
early age,” but that he faced up to and
tried to document the forces of destruc-
tion in human nature.
The other subjects upon which Mr.
Wilson writes at some length are Swin-
burne and “Dr. Zhivago.” On Pasternak’s
symbolism he has some interesting sug-
gestions. But I would barter these for one
speculation that he makes in the article
“Swinburne’s Letters and Novels.” Most
of this essay is devoted to a portrait of
Swinburne and his family, and toward
the end Mr. Wilson allows himself a vigor-
ous attack upon the English system of
flogging, to which he is inspired by re-
flections upon Swinburne’s masochism as it
is seen in “Lesbia Brandon” and “The
Whippingham Papers.” But his chief
argument is that Swinburne wanted des-
perately to tell his personal story; that
the novels in their particularity are evi-
dence of this; and that he met “restraining
and stunting influence,” which prevented
him from following his inclinations and
instead doomed him to “the grandiose
routine of his verse.” It’s a theory which,
whether true or false, made me want to
think about neglected Swinburne again.
And that, in the end, is Mr. Wilson’s
strength in these, on the whole, light
essays. He does capture one’s interest,
even on unfamiliar subjects. The dram-
atic method he confesses to having ad-
mired so much as a boy in Taine’s “His-
tory of English Literature” he employs to
good effect, so that a familiar subject dis-
plays new angles. His method is largely
descriptive. He spends a good deal of
time in stating facts, whether of biog-
raphy or plot, and in his smaller articles
and reviews there is not much room for
anything else. For the most part he
adopts a genial tone, so that one is sur-
prised and almost startled by the ferocity
of his attack upon Tolkien and T. S.
Eliot.
He mercilessly divides Eliot into a
number of personalities: “the Anglican
clergyman,” “the formidable professor,”
and so on. There is a grisly truth in his
characterising of Eliot the formidable pro-
fessor, dismissing “large subjects with
blighting comments” to the delight of his
followers “who feel at once that they are
relieved from the necessity of ever bother-
ing to look into these subjects.” And I
like his view of Eliot’s tradition “as some-
thing like the ‘Main Line’ that runs west
from Philadelphia and on which all the
well-established and well-thought-of people
are supposed to have their residences.”
This, perhaps, is the note on which it is
appropriate to end.
For there is stimulation and variety,
if not much solid nourishment, in “The
Bit Between my Teeth.”
In Praise and Blame of Marriage
To close one’s mind against the radio
One’s better half may like to hear;
To sit time-wasting, lending half an ear
To the double bass like a monk’s hard
pillow,
Small domestic irritations make
Us creatures of a tougher mould
Than Martians or Cistercians we grow
old,
Armored and spined, gruff as the tiger
snake,
Well seasoned, well conditioned. Matriarch
Or balding Joseph, I have groaned
To see my shell grow thick, my mind hard-
boned,
While love bums low, a lantern in the dark.
It seems our gods require it those grim
Lars
We feed with pieces of ourselves.
They make the plates ride firm upon the
shelves.
Households obey the order of the stars.
Tonight the winds of middle age blow fair,
No tempers lost, my children sound
Asleep, like rivers musical underground,
My wife contented in her worn green chair.
Play safe, yet mourn, my inward Adam,
for
That woman-rib of yours, her phoenix part,
That clay-stemmed candlestick, her prodigal
heart
That tidy brooms have swept behind the
door.
JAMES K. BAXTER


FLY TO
THE MIDDLE EAST
bfd
SWISSCARE -b WORLDWIDE
Mihajlov in Moscow
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Moscow Summer. A Traveller’s Notebook.
Mihajlo Mihajlov. Partisan Special. 50c.
NO matter how fine a man’s sensibility,
how intense his vision, nor how
courageous his judgment, few book-
lets of 50 pages could be expected to dis-
play them in full command This one
does.
Mihajlo Mihajlov, 30 or so and a Lec-
turer in Language and Literature in Yugo-
slavia, visited the Soviet Union as an ex-
change scholar. Returning home, he pub-
lished “Moscow Summer 1964” in two
halves in the Belgrade Literary monthly
“Delo.” The second part, beginning with
a section entitled “Concentration Camp
Themes,” provoked heavy and immediate
Soviet protests, because of its description
of Soviet slave labor camps and their
influence on contemporary Soviet litera-
ture.
In February last year “Delo” was
banned and Tito labelled Mihajlov a “re-
actionary who should have been indicted
immediately.” Belgrade’s literary hound-
dogs caught the scent of quarry and began
baying for blood. Mihajlov defended his
articles, declaring that he was not “anti-
Communist” but that he felt “a greater
respect toward the Soviet people than to-
ward the Soviet regime.” In March he
was arrested, tried, and sentenced to im-
prisonment for nine months for “bringing
a foreign state into derision.”
It is likely that Yugoslavia’s rulers pur-
sued this persecution, not so much from
personal upset as from the desire to ap-
pease the new leaders of the CPSU. Per-
haps they were concerned to make only an
outward gesture. I understand that Miha-
jlov recently won his appeal and is now
free. Whether free to work in his chosen
vocation, and to publish his creative and
critical writings is a further question.
In a short space, Mihajlov tells more
about Moscow and Soviet literary culture
than any man I have read, Communist or
anti-Communist. There are the straight
tourist observations:
“In each district there is a dispensary
for sobering up drunks. A litre of vodka
costs as much as six long-playing records
and I cannot understand where all the
drunks come from ... In the outlying
sections of town it is dangerous to go
into the streets at night despite numer-
ous patrols of the special people’s
Militia . . .
“Moscow is really enormous . . . The
people are uncommonly rude to one
another . . . foreigners, however, are not
subject to such treatment . . .
“Generally speaking, electrical appli-
ances and cameras are extremely cheap,
while textiles, shoes, and vodka are in-
credibly expensive . . . The newspapers
were attacking a young painter, I. Glaz-
unov, who was having an exhibition in
Moscow. I tried to visit the exhibition.
It was impossible; the queue was as long
as the one in front of the (Lenin)
Mausoleum. Other exhibitions were
deserted and rightly . . .
“There are 40 churches active in
Moscow today. They are so over-
crowded (mostly with elderly men and
women) that it is difficult to get in.
The parks of culture and recreation are
special attractions, especially Gorky Cen-
tral Park. These are huge green com-
plexes full of all kinds of amusements.
Numerous open-air theatres offer free
daily vocal, instrumental, and folk-
music concerts.”
J/[IHAJLOV’S impressions of student life
at the Moscow State University
under the post-Stalin regime provided
grounds for real hope of increasing liberal-
isation:
“In spite of constant threats that they
will be sent to work colonies for a
year or two, the students are not afraid
to discuss everything openly. They
unhesitatingly discuss and criticise all
the shortcomings of their country. True,
one still encounters a certain amount
of mutual suspicion. Thus a student with
whom I became very friendly warned
me that another student in our group
was a stool pigeon. But the students are
all great optimists and they feel that life
is better and freer every day. I was
surprised that nobody paid any atten-
tion to the groups standing on stairways
and loudly singing prison and concentra-
tion camp songs . . .”
There is apparently a tremendous up-
surge of popularity for these “protest
songs” brought into the common life by the
millions who have returned from the East-
ern and Northern concentration camps
over the past decade. Jazz, although offi-
cially scorned, is also extremely popular.
There is also a strong semi-underground
revival of symbolist and abstract poetry-
and painting.
Mihajlov did not meet one student
dogmatic social realist at Moscow State
University, though he found many amongst
the most published and wealthiest writers.
The latter he describes as forming part of
a special genus of Soviet man “Homo
Sovieticus.”
The ruling apparatus depends on this
class of psychological dependants who act
as a kind of “anti-leaver” amongst the non-
political and non-ideological masses.
"Homo Sovieticus” displays the following
characteristics (the psychological type, is,
of course, quite well known in the West):
He approves and accepts everything that
is decided at the top with complete sin-
cerity.
He is naive and unthinking and casu-
istic like the type described by Dostoevsky
in the person of Erkel, one of the minor
characters of “The Possessed.”
Honest and pleasant in his personal life,
he is prepared for the greatest servilities in
the name of “a higher idea.”
He possesses a naive ability to believe his
own lies, deliberately closing his eyes to
everything that negates those lies.
Mihajlov comments that every tyranny,
even the most horrible one, lasts because
of the support of its honest fanatics. The
scoundrels are rarer.
Unfortunately, the Soviet soci" l system
favors the development of this This
starts with nursery songs and schooling
in compulsory indoctrination of the col-
lective spirit. The indoctrination continues
all the way to the collective farms and
factories. “Everywhere, discipline is in-
stilled; orders must be executed and all
personal initiative suppressed.”
In his descriptions of Soviet literature
and writers Mihajlov is most compelling.
“Vladimir Dudintsev is the most popular
amongst the more independent lines of the
intelligentsia. When Mihajlov met him,
Dudintsev was living, with his wife and
three daughters, a very modest life. In
order to survive he has to translate from
Ukrainian much of the time. Authors’ fees
in the U.S.S.R. are relatively high, enab-
ling a number of poets to live off the
publication of one small collection of
poems per year . . . But Dudintsev, like
so many other disobedient writers, hardly
manages to make both ends meet; diso-
bedient writers’ works are published in the
smallest possible editions.
“Dudintsev, like most other Russian
writers, was still optimistic and believed
that a new wave of liberalisation was com-
ing, a new 1956! Remembering all the
noise from 1956, the writer told me that
his most important, his greatest experience,
was when people unknown to him, in a bus
or in the subway without looking him in
the eyes, secretly squeezed his hand. ‘For
this it’s worth while to endure anything,’
he told me.”
Mihajlov manages to penetrate into
the lives of many Soviet writers in this
way: He is full of insights into reveal-
ing stories about men like Leonid Leonov,
Viktor Shklovsky, Evjeny Vinokurov,
Iliya Ehrenburg, Solzhenitsyn, and many
others.
Mihajlov sounds a constant note of
cautious optimism. “But every new
achievement of the progressive force is
paid for with heavy sacrifices and exhaust-
ing struggle. Any action not planned from
the top, no matter how useful it may be,
is still criticised: There is no greater
Soviet sin than an unplanned action.”
Mihajlov is splendid. That such men not
only persist but are increasing in numbers
behind the Iron Curtain is a source of
both tremendous hope and even greater
humility to those of us in the Western
world.


T.
X 7
IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart qf Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including . . .
The Persian Room Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque, too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392
HESS ORIENTAL
V MELBOURNE J
R H 204/6 6
DAVID MARTIN
author of
THE YOUNG WIFE
THE HERO OF TOO
Now gives us a splendidly
sardonic tale of our time
THE KING BETWEEN
First U.K. Reviews:
"A fresh, original fantasy on the
theme of neutralism . . . sophis-
ticated irony and telling satire/'
Glasgow Herald.
"Much better than Morris West."
Spectator
"Comic, with a sinister side
tense and diverting "
Liverpool Post
NOW AVAILABLE $2.85
Manuscripts by Australians or
about Australians are welcome.
Published by CASSELL, AUSTRALIA.
Journeys in the Night
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
A Stroll Before Dark. Richard Church.
Heinemann. 465.
A Voice Through a Cloud. Denton Welch.
Faber. 255.
THESE books are written by men of
two quite opposite temperaments.
Mr. Church in his collection of essays
displays interests that are conservative,
rural, and perhaps rather too cosy. Denton
Welch in his posthumous, uncompleted
novel on the other hand confronts the fact
of pain with great truth and sensitivity.
Mr. Church is a septuagenarian poet and
novelist. He lives in Kent with his wife
and a cat, and appears 'to go on moder-
ately frequent tours of Europe and some-
times India. His tastes are fairly predict-
able. Wordsworth, Keats, and John Bet-
jeman are members of the club, but Dylan
Thomas gets a black ball. Very early in
the book one becomes lost among the
fustian. Hardly have we “exposed ourselves
to the drama of the new moon and Venus
setting together” before we encounter “the
sentiment of Christmas had already taken
possession.”
Mr. Church also has a regrettable tend-
ency to repeat himself. On several occa-
sions when describing details of various
tours he pulls himself up and announces
that no one is interested- in travelogues.
Two of his essays deal with the topic
of lying fallow, and too often he appears
to be writing for the sake of writing, rather
than because he has anything very interest-
ing to say.
In “The Art of Recollection” there is
a symptomatic sentence. “It was good to
remove myself from immediacy, from life
in the raw (and life in India can be very
raw), to a framed and patterned universe
reconstructed by an artist . . .”
There are, however, redeeming charac-
teristics. Mr. Church on occasions can at-
tain real eloquence as in his description of
the river Serchio in “A Latin Interlude”
and in several of his evocations of the Eng-
lish countryside. I approve of his insistence
that the best art often comes from the
quiet, steady artist rooted in a particular
environment and region rather than a
flash-in-the-pan cosmopolitan. Mr. Church
is a good, kind person with high ideals
and a strong sense of order and tradition.
I find myself sympathising with much of
his opposition to trends in contemporary
life and art. The title of his collection, “A
Stroll Before Dark” has possibly been
selected by him as having a sociological
as well as personal significance.
Denton Welch died in 1948 before he
was able to complete the novel under re-
view. It deals with a young art student
who receives a very severe spinal injury in
a motor accident, and his shocking agony
after the accident, followed by his uneasy
recuperation. It would appear to be auto-
biographical, as in real life Denton Welch
suffered a similar injury and ultimately
died of complications ensuing thirteen
years after the accident. He was thirty-one.
He writes with real power and authority,
and gathers words and feelings like perfect
icicles quivering and refracting flashes of
pain and ecstasy. Each incident is drawn
with the precision of a haiku. The first
few chapters deal with the tremendous
pain immediately after the accident and
are quite harrowing, but because of the
great purity of Denton Welch’s imagina-
tion they leave one feeling purified.
As the hero begins to convalesce, pain
ceases to be the overbearing factor and
people come more sharply into focus. He
draws himself and other people accurately
and without sentimentality. However, none
of these people really become flesh and
blood. They remain shapes moving about
in the tortured aquarium of his mind. Even
Dr. Farley, whom he tries to erect into a
father figure, remains remote, an object
for rather arbitrary devotion. The first
person who really breaks through the cloud
is Miss Hellier, a delightful, whimsical
creature, twenty years his senior, who
agrees to come and live with him in a
cottage in order to look after him.
Unfortunately the novel breaks off just
as this is about to take place. Perhaps she
was intended by the author to be the
“voice through a cloud” who gradually
restores human warmth to the life of the
hero. I can only guess. This is a book
which stings and moves, and remains in the
mind with a cold, lyrical fragrance.
I Drew A Resting Snake
Sitting On A Chair
She asked me to draw a lion sitting on a
bed.
I asked her why to draw a lion sitting on a
bed,
I’ve never seen a lion sitting on a bed.
She said it was her art homework
And she can’t draw very well.
I asked her why choose a lion sitting on a
bed
As a subject to draw,
She said it could be any animal
Sitting on anything.
But I can’t draw a lion.
I said if it is her homework
She should draw it herself.
She said again she can’t draw very well
So would I please draw a lion sitting on a
bed
Or any animal sitting on anything.
I can’t draw very well myself,
Barely a good crooked line
But she reminded me of things she does for
me.
Makes my bed and washes my dishes, etc.
So I thought about an animal sitting on
a something,
I thought about a snake sitting on a chair,
Though I’ve never seen a snake that sits.
Then she said it could be resting,
So I drew a resting snake sitting on a
chair.
It was not very good but she was pleased.
GORDON McWHIRTER


A
(Q.l
PROHUT
MAJ
TEC
ES
ICALLY TAL
CALLY SIMP
LAND LIGHT...
E AND STRONG
Made in Britain by Piikington Brothers Limited
PROFILIT, the revolutionary new glass unit for single or
double glazing. Section 10 5/16" (262 mm); standard
lengths up to 20ft. (6m); depth 1 5/8" (41mm) o/a; light
transmission 85%; Cast or Wireline. PROFILIT spans
vertically, giving vistas of unlimited width and unbroken
line without additional vertical supports of any kind.
To receive regular mailings of Profilit technical literature,
please post coupon to:
Mr. C. Rogers, Representing Piikington Brothers Limited,
4 Bridge Street, (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
PK2tSS/66


WRITING IN
THE SIXTIES
FOURTEEN years ago the government
set up the “Sahitya Akademi”
(Academy of Letters) to stimulate
interest in literature. Among its func-
tions is to award prizes equal to $929.00
Australian to authors of the best works
of prose or poetry published in the year
of the 1 4 major languages of India. The
States of the federation have also literary
academics of their own with similar awards
for the languages of their region. The total
number of recipients of the States and the
“Sahitya Akademi” awards for “works of
merit” is now well over 1000.
State patronage and the increase in
literacy have opened new vistas for the
Indian writer. The academies and the
Regional Language Book Trusts have pro-
jects of translating classics of a foreign
language into languages of India. News-
papers and magazines, which only a
decade ago paid a maximum of $9.47 for
an article or a short story —or paid noth-
ing at all pay over $55.50 for the same.
All India Radio, which is the world’s larg-
est network of broadcasting stations, em-
ploys a large number of dramatists and
scriptwriters at handsome salaries. Never
before has more writing been produced in
India than in the 18 years of its freedom.
For the first time in India’s history her
writers are able to live by writing some
earn enough to maintain themselves in
sizable bungalows with flunkeys and motor
cars. The Indian writer has never had it
so good.
Despite t,he spate of writing, and its
recognition, it is generally admitted that
independent India has neither produced
a great poet or novelist nor even an out-
standing work of poetry or fiction. As in
the rest of the world so also in India,
it is an era of mediocrity.
Exposure to European and American
writing has not changed the Indian pat-
tern very much. Poetry remains, as it al-
ways was, the first favorite. In all langu-
ages more collections of poems are pub-
lished than novels or short stories. Poetic
symposia attract large crowds. The stand-
ard of poetry is of a comparatively high
order. Every language claims to have its
The Indian Challenge
By KHUSHURANT SINGH
Shakespeares, Tennysons, and Eliots. And
some like Sankara Kurup, of Malabar,
have won nation-wide acclaim. Even those
who write in English have made greater
impact on contemporary English poetry
than their fellow-writers have in the world
of fiction. Dom Moraes and Zulfikar
Ghose (technically Pakistani), both settled
in England, have attracted favorable
notices from English critics. Nissim
Ezekiel, Mrs. Kamala Das, and a group
styling themselves as members of the
writers’ workshop of Calcutta represent the
avant garde in Indo-Anglican poetry.
After poetry come short stories, novels,
plays, and belles lettres in that order. The
Indian’s creative genius expresses itself best
in miniatures. The Indian short story is
of a consistently high order, but still
observing the traditional form of the fable
and the Kiss a narrative with a purpose
or a sting in the tail. Many collections
have been published. Of these I can
recommend “Land of the Five Rivers,” an
anthology of stories of the Punjab written
by Punjabis, both Pakistani and Indian.
The anthology was published in paperback
by Messrs. Jaico of Bombay.
This is the fifth in a series of articles
on contemporary literature, to he contributed
bv various critics.
In recent years many novels on India
have been published abroad. Most of
them are by well-established writers.
Thakazi Sivsankar Pillai’s “Chemmeen”
(“The Shrimp”) translated from the
Malavalam as a moving tale of Muslim
fisherfolk of the coast of Malabar. Amrita
Pritam, the most distinguished woman
poet-novelist of contemporary India, has
written over a dozen in Punjabi. Her
“Pinjar” (“The Skeleton”) translated into
English and published by Jaico, is the
story of a young Hindu girl taken forcibly
by a Muslim youth on the eve of her
wedding, and her subsequent falling in
love with her abductor. Mrs. Pritam, like
other Indians and Pakistanis writing on
the conflict between different religious
groups, writes without any rancor and with
a sensitivity which places human emotions
above denominational loyalties.
For the world outside, Indian writing
can be judged only by translated works of
those written directly in English. Since
competent translators are not easy to find,
the writer of English has the foreign field
to himself. Until independence, the name
most known was that of Mulkh Raj Anand
(“The Village,” “Coolie,” etc.). Anand’s
ink has run dry and his place as doyen of
the Indo-Anglican school has been usurped
by R. K. Narayan (“Financial Expert,”
“The Guide,” “Maneater of Malgudi”).
Narayan and Raja Rao (“Serpent and the
Rope”) are the only two writers of Eng-
lish to have been honored by the Sahitya
Akademi.
Indian dramatists deserve scant respect.
There are a few whose plays are broad-
cast by all Indian Radio or acted by
troupes of amateurs in schools, colleges,
and YMCA auditoria. The government has
built a chain of Rabindra (named after
the famous poet Tagore) theatres in all
the big cities. Since there are no plays
nor professional actors these theatres are
largely used for political or social gather-
ings.
Will any contemporary writer be read
in the next century? I can hazard one
guess: it will be Nirad C. Chaudhuri.
Chaudhuri is almost 70, a good age for an
Indian. And all he has published so far
is three books: “The Autobiography of an
Unknown Indian,” “A Passage to Eng-
land,” and, more recently, “The Contin-
ent of Circe.” On the surface, he is a
denigrator of everything Indian its cli-
mate, its people, religions, way of living
and thinking. Basically he is passionately
Hindu and Indian. His erudition in Sans-
krit, Bengali, Greek, Latin, French, and
German is impressive. His thinking is
original and audacious. And he handles the
English language as no Indian has ever
handled it and as very few English-speak-
ing people can today. Nirad C. Chaudhuri
is a phenomenon. It is not surprising that
he is disliked by his countrymen but
posterity will surely reclaim him as the
greatest writer of post-independent India.
SWAINSVILLE
SHE sa ye : 'so and ha ye a m eh. '
f say mental health /$
MORE IMPORTANT.
HE SAYS ; 'Co-OFBKATB AM) H£LP
ME CIEA*) TH£ CAR. '/ SAY
/N&tVIDUAUSM fS
SAC££D.
DO THEY WANT ME TO GPpw OP
HATING the woplj> ?


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Down With Cities
Decentralisation is one of those words which has
1 been spoken so often in political discourse and spoken to
such little effect that it has become just a noise. This
is a great pity because behind the word there are growing
problems and possibilities, too. With a half of our national
increase in population going into Melbourne and Sydney each
year, there is a rapidly accumulating set of problems of pro-
viding transport, sewerage, water supplies, and the like.
Each year’s population growth in Sydney and Melbourne
adds about an extra s2om to the cost of urban traffic congestion,
according to one estimate. And if the same extra people were
to go into cities of 100,000 to 500,000 the extra cost would
be only about $1 million a year. The cure of congestion in
multi-million population cities promises to be almost as immense
as the cost of the disease. Freeway networks alone run into
many hundreds of millions of dollars and you cannot get more
than a few miles of underground railway for less than sloom.
Within a little while this problem of urban development could
become the biggest political issue in Australia, bar foreign
policy, perhaps. After all, the traditional issues of the past
few years are well on the way to being solved.
On the other hand, traffic, parking, and the costs of servicing
sprawling metropoles are bound to become more acute problems
for a great proportion of Australians, and will be reflected in
political demands. The constructive channelling of these will
unfortunately be complicated by the federal system we live
with, and a considerable amount of imagination and political
skill on the part of both National and State Governments will
be needed to satisfy them at a reasonable cost.
It is easy enough to present the best solution in general
terms, because the economic evidence is pretty conclusive. Since
almost all the increase in our workforce is going to continue
to be taken into either manufacturing or services, it will have
to go in cities. Only cities provide the concentration and con-
venience required for factories and offices and professional
services to function. And they have to be big cities.
The producer needs a great range and variety of “inputs”
men and women with different skills, raw materials, repair services,
banking, advertising agencies and only these can be provided
in a large city. The “outputs,” too, do better in the big city
because it provides a big market close by. From the point of
view of the ordinary man it has obvious advantages in providing
a larger choice of occupations and a greater range of goods in
the shops and more services.
But it is possible to argue that, once a city gets beyond the
range of population of 500,000 to 1,500,000, the nuisances and
costs begin to outweigh the benefits of bigness and growth.
This suggests that we should be thinking in terms of limiting
the growth of the biggest cities and trying to distribute it among
others so that an increasing proportion of the population comes
to live in sensibly sized units. It is fairly obvious that certain
favorite Government policies will do nothing for decentralisa-
tion. Generalised concessions to people outside the big cities do
nothing to effect decentralisation, simply because they have to
be spread so widely that at any one place they make no notice-
able difference. It would be difficult to find one single worker
who was moved out of a big city because of the petrol price
stabilisation scheme, even though this is costing the taxpayer
$2O million a year.
General incentives to factories to shift out of big cities is a
MEN AND MATTERS
VISITS to headquarters by the top
men in Australian subsidiaries of
British companies are usually fairly
routine. But there is nothing routine about
the coming trip to London by Mr. R. B.
Raines, the chairman of Australian Elec-
trical Industries, and by Mr. J. M. Bur-
nett, chairman (and the only executive
director) of EMI (Australia) Ltd.
Mr. Raines is off to London for ten
days, and will be back on June 14. Mr.
J. M. Burnett will leave in a month or
two.
The two events are not unrelated. In
England their parent companies have
announced the merger of their domestic
appliance interests AEl’s Hotpoint and
EMl’s Morphy Richards into a com-
pany which will be the U.K.’s next big-
gest appliance maker after Hoover.
The local companies are still working
out on paper the implications for them.
As in the U.K., the new companies’
appliance products are complementary
rather than competitive.
Three years ago, the British AEI
company bought out the 32 percent public
shareholding in its Australian subsidiary
to end an inglorious seven-year period on
the share lists. When the parent company
chairman, Mr. C. R. Wheeler, was in Aus-
tralia last August, he confirmed the grow-
ing rumors that the local offshoot would
be refloated again, but not for a few years.
This could well be involved in any
discussion on merg-
ing of appliance in-
terests with EMI.
But EMI has had
its problems with
appliances, too, hav-
ing burned its fingers
some years ago in
trying to cover a
wider appliance field
than its own re-
sources could cope
with, and having had
some problems with the Morphy Richards
brand which it owned in conjunction with
an Australian company. This association
has now ended—and so by the look of it
has the Morphy Richards brand name
here, if only for the time being.
THE Ingersoll name means big things
in the Borg-Warner organisation in
the U.S. and now it is going to
mean some big things out here. Last week,
47-year-old Mr. James H. Ingersoll was
appointed managing director of Borg-
Warner Australia. His father was honor-
ary chairman of the U.S. company until
his death early this year; his brother is
chief executive. Formerly president of the
Ingersoll Products division of Borg-Warner
in the U.S., the knowledge J. H. gained
in his four years to 1965 as the Philip-
pines administrator for the U.S. Inter-
national Development agency should help
R. B. Raines.
J. M. Burnett.
N. A. Pardoe.
Borg-Warner’s exports there as it should
those of Ralph McKay, the Melbourne
maker of plough discs which is closely
linked with Ingersoll Products.
This link, and the recent decision by
the U.S. Borg-Warner company to acquire
a 50 percent holding in the Australian
Yorkaire air-conditioning company (it
owns the U.S. parent), adds interests to
two other moves in the Borg-Warner
board room.
Mr. N. A. Pardoe, who runs Federated
Industries Ltd., has become local Borg-
Warner director. Federated formerly
owned all of Yorkaire in Australia and
now retains half. The other move is to
make Borg-Warner’s former managing
director here, Mr. W. Gordon Turnbull,
into the vice-chairman responsible for the
supervision of Borg-Warner’s overseas op-
erations, suggesting closer links among
these associates in future.


well proven failure. In Victoria and N.S.W. in the whole of the
postwar period these have probably moved not more than three
to four dozen factories to the country, and most of these are
heavily dependent on subsidies and rescue grants.
If there is to be effective decentralisation, then it can only be
as a result of a series of big pushes: attempts to get twenty or
thirty concerns to set up at the one time, mutually providing
at least the beginnings of the range of complementary relation-
ships taking in each other’s washing, so to speak which
are necessary in a modern economy.
A strategy of decentralisation with some hope for success
would attempt to attract much of future city growth into a
dozen or so centres, some already small cities, others hardly
more than dots on the map. Townsville, Gladstone, Jervis Bay,
Canberra, Western Port, Portland, Port Pirie, Albany are the
sort of collection that is possible. A variety of means would be
used to push these centres ahead vigorously big tax concessions,
the provision of services and housing and, most valuable of all,
a guarantee of rapid growth according to a ten-year program.
Beyond this they should have the momentum to grow of their
own accord.
It would not cost the Government or the States any more than
they would otherwise require for providing even minimal levels
of services to rapidly growing sprawls at Melbourne and Sydney,
and it would provide better living and lower costs generally.
The problem is most acute for N.S.W. and Victoria, and probably
most money should initially go for the build-up of alternative
centres in these two States. Adelaide, Plobart, Perth, and, to a
lesser extent, Brisbane are not so badly plagued by the problems
of bigness and so there is less urgency for dencentralisation there.
To make up for less Commonwealth money for decentralisation
as such, they might be given more money than N.S.W. and
Victoria for general development so that they might attract a
few more people and factories away from the two big States.
State Premiers up in Canberra in ten days’ time will find
people in the Commonwealth Government keen to participate
in such a scheme and provide a lot of money for it. They know
that the alternatives are State budgets increasingly strained by
the immense costs of easing traffic congestion in sprawling cities,
and a series of ineffectual and expensive gimmicks.
Already there are some rumors around that the Common-
wealth will want to do something concrete to promote decentralisa-
tion before the next election. It might be talked into a construc-
tive joint Commonwealth-States scheme. On the other hand, it
might produce a gimmick of its own at the last minute
say a system of generalised tax concessions to country industry,
something which at great expense to the community generally
would move absolutely no one from where they would not
otherwise have gone.
The High Price of Success
THE price of success is often higher than the price of failure,
even on the scale of Wapet’s mammoth investment in their
search for West Australian oil. The more experienced
speculators were not surprised when the price of Ampol Explora-
tion shares went down after the Barrow Island field was proved
to be not only commercial but Australia’s biggest. This was
simply the market’s way of taking the shares off the speculative
table and moving them more toward the industrials counter.
But the effect on the ordinary motorist will take a little longer,
and perhaps unexpectedly this is a prospective price rise for
petrol. As Ampol’s managing director, Mr. W. M. Leonard,
explains, the Tariff Board’s pricing formula for Australian crude
oil woud give Barrow a higher quality differential than Moonie’s,
so Barrow oil would be more expensive than Moonie’s.
And because the Tariff Board insists on all Australian market-
ing companies taking their share of Barrow crude, the effect on
the motorist will be slightly dearer petrol. This was confirmed
in Perth later in the week at a talk given by Mr. M. A. Condon,
assistant director, petroleum exploration, for the Bureau of Min-
eral Resources. Yet in the same talk he pointed out that Austra-
lian oil is far cheaper to find than American oil, despite the
$2OO million so far spent. Australia’s average per barrel is $1.30,
disregarding gas, and current American costs are SU.S.2 to
SU.S.4.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the CCOTIOmy ,* Estimates of national in-
come and expenditure for the March quarter show the
first fall in company incomes for about five years . . .
Mr. W. McMahon promised a stimulating budget, arriv-
ing at a favorable balance of payments and minimum
cost-of-living increases.
The two mines of Zinc Corporation and New Broken
Hill resumed full production after the Broken Hill strike.
Mr. Justice Taylor of the N.S.W. Industrial Commission
allowed discontinuation of a 2c a ton disability allow-
ance, which was the subject of the dispute.
For the markets: The Sydney Stock Ex-
change finally reversed three weeks of fall with a show
of strength, beginning with the leaders and seeping
through the rest of the market last Thursday. As inves-
tors’ excitement with oils simmered down, Western Min-
ing continued to attract attention, and has now doubled
its price this year. Consolidated Rutile was also sought
after.
The pound sterling held steady despite Mr. Wilson’s
declared state of emergency in London . . . The strength
of gold shares was a big feature of the London Stock
Exchange last week.
U.S. military spending showed no signs of slackening
. . . Wall Street was irregular and dull.
For Companies: a rewarding gesture from the
Western Australian Government was to allow Wapet
to retain the whole of its 200-square-mile Barrow Island
exploration areas as oil leases for 21 years . . . While
BfiP and Esso extended joint oil exploration into a third
area, in the Otway Basin of Victoria.
Alcoa lost only sl.9m. in 1965, compared with $3.3m.
in 1964, thanks to the profitable operation of the sub-
sidiary Western Aluminium N.L., which earned sl.3m.
profit.
Prestige, lingerie and hoisery maker, suffered a profit
fall from $1.15m. to $945,000 year to March . . . two
other major users of synthetic yarn, Tennyson Textiles
and STP, announced talks “to shareholders’ advantage,”
but not about a takeover . . . Textile Holdings, the merger
of John Vicars and Australian Woollen Mills, declared
a lower-than-forecast dividend of percent.
Doubtful debts account for sl.lm. of the sl.sm. loss
reported by Marcus Clark in the six months to January
. . . Mark Foys paid a final 1 \ percent, making five percent
for the year, despite some shareholders’ objections. One
more floor of the city store is released from retailing for
office space . . . Allied Mills varied the pattern of regular
one-for-four par issues to make it one-for-five at 25c
premium to shareholders registered on July 22 . . . British
Tobacco raised dividend from ten to 11 percent for the
past year to October.
Project Development, engineer and contractor, made
a loss in the December half-year. (Since that date Mr.
E. S. Clementson resumed his old job of managing direc-
tor.) . . . MLC revalued its shareholding in Mutual Life
and Citizens’ Assurance Co. by sB.sm. up to $14.5m.,
which neatly covers the sB.3m. write-off in respect of
H. G. Palmer. The Life company wrote off $9.5m. on its
Palmer investment.
Larke Consolidated’s excellent reporting standards won
it the AlM’s annual report award for the third year in
a row . . . Moteliers Ltd. is buying the Kosciusko Chalet,
but not taking over its liabilites or capital . . . Finance
Corporation, a secured creditor, will not be fully repaid,
but claims its loss should not exceed expectations.
Significant to automotive parts makers and VW dealers
and finance companies is the slump in Volkswagen Aus-
tralia profit from $ 1.95 m. to $519,000 when sales declined
•from 34,588 to 26,733 vehicles.
Grocer and general merchant, Permewan Wright,
hoisted profit 16 percent in the year to March.


A stairway
to heaven
An ancient stairway of 1840
steps (described by G. E.
Mitton in her book as a
stairway to heaven) has led
pilgrims for over '2O
centuries to the summit of
Mihintale where rest the
sacred relics of Mahinda
Thera, a disciple of
Lord Buddha.
K- : v
V,
.: v./ A 3 '-' 5
In an ancient land, a modem banking service
9io*&
The Bank of Ceylon, controlling over half the total bank
deposits in Ceylon, offers a modern and up-to-date banking
service including Intelligence Reports, Credit Information,
financing of exports and imports, and every type of foreign
exchange transaction.
In their trade relations with Ceylon, enterprising exporters
and importers can depend on the Bank of Ceylon.
London Office: 48/54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Foreign Dept.: York Street, Colombo 1.
Central Office: 41 Bristol Street, Colombo.
BANK OF CEYLON
32 Banking Offices in Ceylon. 5 Pay Offices.
An Unenlightening Exercise
By CROESUS
IT was pretty painful, but as the employers’ counsel Mr. J. Robinson had relied heavily
on the Vernon report in presenting his case at the Arbitration Commission’s current
wage hearing, nobody was blaming Mr. R. J. Hawke on the union’s behalf for
warming up on the businessmen members of the Vernon Committee as a prelude to
later encounters there with its economic experts, Professors Karmel and Crawford.
But neither Mr. Hawke nor the Com-
mission itself could have got all that
much enlightenment out of the exercise.
Hawke’s strategy was lost, mainly because
these two practical businessmen didn’t
pretend for a moment to be experts in the
field of theoretical economics. As often as
not, after carefully leading them up for
the kill in getting them to agree to step-by-
step economic reasoning, he found them
opting out with frank admissions of their
relative innocence in such matters.
If it did nothing else at least the inter-
rogation (for that is what it seemed to
boil down to in the event) of Sir James
Vernon and Mr. K. B. Myer gave Mr.
Hawke his best peg yet in his tireless cam-
paign to have the Commission recognise
that movements in prices as well as in
capacity to pay and productivity should
be taken into consideration in fixing award
wages.
One of Mr. Hawke’s early gains was to
get both Vernon and Myer to agree that
if consumer prices in Australia were not
rising as fast as those overseas the effect
of a given rise in award wages here on
our balance of payments position could be
discounted. Going on from this, Mr.
Hawke was able to demonstrate and cer-
tainly not find much opposition, at least
until he came to Professor Karmel, that
if import prices were rising there was a
good case on equity, if on no other
grounds, for departing from the produc-
tivity-cum-capacity to pay formula advo-
cated by the employers for fixing award
wages.
Karmel had some important reserva-
tions as to the effects of taking a rise in
import prices in isolation in this respect.
If the rise was accompanied by a deterior-
ation in the terms of trade this should be
construed as a decline in productivity of
the economy as a whole. What is more,
he wouldn’t agree that failure to increase
money wages in such circumstances would
necessarily mean that the share going to
wages and salaries would decline propor-
tionately to the shares of other sectors. In
fact, all sectors would be worse off. Karmel
also warned against the indiscriminate use
of overseas price indexes. Many overseas
prices would have no relevance to our
situation. Nor, one would imagine, would
some import prices.
There was something new for the Com-
mission to digest here. In previous cases
there has been no effective challenge to
the more comfortable views often quoted
by Mr. Hawke from the Downing-Isaacs
paper on the subject.
Then tßere Was Mr. Hawke’s line
that the wages theorem enunciated in
chapter seven of the Vernon Report would
not work in practice if restrictive trade
practices (or something else) militated
against the lowering of prices by producers
enjoying above-average gains in produc-
tivity to offset the legitimate rises in prices
of producers whose productivity gains were
below the average.
Neither Sir James nor Kenneth Myer
was prepared—or so it seemed to me —to
swallow the reality of this, even if they
both conceded Hawke’s flawless logic. Least
of all were they prepared to say that re-
strictive practices were operating in the
way Hawke suggested. The most Sir
James would admit was that probably the
committee should have spent more time
going into the whole question of restric-
tive trade practices (his alibi was that the
Federal Government seemed at the time
of the compilation of the report to have
the question well in hand).
In questioning Vernon and Myer,
Hawke made great play of the possibility
of differences of opinion existing
members of the committee on the question
of restrictive trade practices and its impor-
tance on the pricing of goods and services,
but when he quoted extensively from
Karmel’s published views on the pervasive-
ness of such practices in this country,
Hawke didn’t get much change out of the
two businessmen.
Nor did he in fact from Professor Kar-
mel himself. Karmel indicated that
although his views on the existence of re-
strictive trade practices had not changed
since he wrote his book, but on the evi-
dence available to the committee it had
seemed that such practices were not opera-
ting to invalidate the theorem.
However, if as has now been demon-
strated by new figures for the relative
shares of GNP, taking in revised figures
for 1961-62 and two additional years
(1963-64 and 1964-65) that the share of
wages and salaries had dropped appreci-
ably since 1953 (actually from 64.6 to
61.1 percent), Karmel thought that the
whole question of the effect of restrictive
trade practices on price adjustments prob-
ably needed looking at again.
Although one of the judges got near to
doing so when addressing a question to
Mr. Myer, nobody asked the'Vernon Com-
mittee witnesses what the effect on prices
would be if the Commission attempted to
restore the part of the share of wages and
salaries lost since 1953 by granting a
once-and-for-all lump-sum increase in
award wages this year, as in fact is being
claimed by the unions.
One got the impression at the Com-
mission this week that although the ideal
of achieving price stability was much in
the air (even around Mr. Hawke), this
year’s wage judgment will be a liberal
one.
Unfortunately, however, though all the
witnesses were asked either by Mr. Hawke
or the bench to throw some light on the
vital question of wages drift, or “earnings
drift” (which seems to be the latest jar-
gon), nobody had anything helpful to say
on the subject. The problem of how to
achieve the most equitable level of award
wages in face of the free-for-all in the
over-award field apparently remains as
much a puzzle to the members of the
Vernon Committee as it was when writing
their report. The Commission itself admits
it doesn’t know the answer in a country
where we’re as far away as ever from
getting an incomes policy embracing all
sections of the community.


J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Sir Robert and Collins House
SIR ROBERT MENZIES has never
been a businessman, nor would he
probably claim to be an economist,
except maybe a political one with a highly
developed intuitive approach to economic
problems and their solutions. Indeed, he
always seems to me to be rather shy of
talking about business and economic things
at all; anyway, without a brief from ex-
perts. In his long spell as PM he gave
the impression of merely presiding over
inevitable economic events and not lead-
ing them consciously in any direction dic-
tated from outside.
His masterly passivity in economic
affairs has always been an enigma to
me, but it has happened to suit the power-
ful Victorian industrial and business in-
terests behind him. For the most signifi-
cant of Sir Robert’s economic achieve-
ments was surely to let laissez faire have
its head in the highly charged protection-
ist .setting inherited from his predecessors.
When he was entertained by these interests
at the Melbourne Town Hall last Thurs-
day I, for one, wasn’t surprised that in
one of the longest and best speeches I’ve
heard from him the economic and busi-
ness aspects of his stewardship in Can-
berra were not mentioned at all.
With Sir Robert opting out of business
and economic excursions at the Town
Hall, it was rather ironic, one
thought, that in the same week the public-
spirited members of the Vernon Commit-
tee, whom he castigated last year for
making enlightened and positive sugges-
tions to improve the economy, were being
put through Mr. Hawke’s burning hoop
at the Arbitration Commission. Having
listened to Sir James Vernon, Mr. Ken-
neth Myer, and Professor Karmel per-
form their acts without their professional
reputations being scorched, I venture to
suggest their economic achievements will
be remembered long after Sir Robert’s
have been forgotten.
WHEN, earlier this year, Canadian
gas expert Dr. Charles Hethering-
ton, in his report on the develop-
ment of natural gas in Bass Strait, sug-
gested Victoria’s Gas and Fuel Corpora-
tion should be sold to private enterprise,
it proved such a hot political potato that
Sir Henry Bolte wouldn’t own it. How-
ever, it is still smouldering around the
Victorian capital, where even with Sir
Henry still doing “the tour” and looking
for overseas capital, a subtle idea to but-
ter it for public consumption is under dis-
cussion.
This is to use the proceeds, which it is
estimated would be about $25 million,
from a sale of the Corporation toward
financing Melbourne’s projected $64 mil-
lion underground railway, which has been
pigeonholed through lack of money.
Cutting right across the political issues
involved and the availability of loan
funds, the promoters of the suggestion are
at pains to prove that the Gas and Fuel
Corporation has failed in its objects under
semi-Government ownership.
The arguments look unconvincing. It
is true, of course, that brown coal’s 31
percent share of gas production looks small
beside the 53 percent made from imported
petroleum. But one cannot neglect the fact
that gas from petroleum is cheaper, and
in businesslike fashion the corporation has
wisely taken this into account. Indeed,
arguing from hindsight, the discovery of
even cheaper gas still in Bass Strait would
seem to support the corporation’s policy
in recent years of holding back develop-
ment of brown coal sources of gas supply.
IN the old days most of the bigshots
in the Australian mining world used
to be housed within a stone’s throw of
one another in Melbourne. When Federal
Parliament was in Spring Street this was
a very handy arrangement.
For a Pressman or cabinet minister to
put his mining question he had no need
to go farther than the honeycomb of
suites at Collins House of BHP head-
quarters, then in Little Collins Street.
If the name was Robinson, Govett,
Baillieu, Darling, Cuming, Lewis, Massey-
Greene or such like, his address would be
at one of these. Mind you, it was not
all that easy to get an appointment.
Attempts at off-the-cuff telephone inter-
views were frowned on and the bird
might have to be caught on the wing to
a mine or London. Such as it was, here
we had an unofficial but entirely efficient
Commonwealth Chamber of Mines. No-
body dreamed of it being officially called
this in the days of the great individualists.
With the changing times Melbourne has
remained the country’s mining capital,
and of course the head seat of the Insti-
tute of Mining and Metallurgy, a mine of
information itself and the nearest many
people in the industry want to get to-
ward a national expression of their activi-
ties. But even in this city many of the
mining companies have moved to new
addresses. In Collins Street number 85, if
not 100, houses as big a mining congrega-
tion as 360, and of course other mining
houses have gained national prominence
both in this and other States.
With this dispersion and expansion it
has admittedly become more difficult to
marshall the voice of mining now pro-
truding more forcibly than ever into
national economic calculations as alu-
minium, tin, nickel, and other rising metals
are being forged along with the old.
Most of the old names are gone, but
the spirit of independence persists. We
don’t hear of anybody except the Press
calling for a Commonwealth mining body
to crystallise the industry’s new order in
the eyes of a public and government.
Least of all can we expect this to come
from Collins House; BHP with its keen-
ness to get on unimpeded with its enor-
mously increased commitments is quite
happy to wait for somebody else to make
a move; CRA with its heavy loading of
British and American capital does no
more than wave the national flag.
If anybody outside Victoria expects any
of the big mining groups to get closer
and form a Commonwealth Bureau of
Mines their expectations look extravagant
from where I sit in Collins Street. If
there’s whispering to be done in Cabinet’s
ears in Canberra the individual groups feel
quite capable of doing it on their own.
As for their public image, I’ve learned
over the years that most of them don’t
really give a damn.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA COMMENT
A Welcome Fall in Stockholdings
IT made good headlines to splash that
44 percent drop in farm income right
across the front page, but it was not
very newsy, really. Most of the sl67m.
drop in farm income in the March quarter
was due to the much smaller payments to
wheat farmers resulting from the drought-
affected crop of last summer. And we knew
about that many months ago.
Seasonal adjustment suggests that farm
income has been running at only a bit
over s2oom. a quarter since the middle
of last year, when it came down from
the very good figure of about s36om.
More interesting than the rural figures
were the estimates for the rest of' the
economy. The latest figure for company
profits suggests an annual rate of $2700m.,
which is no higher than at the end of 1964.
It is in fact a small though probably sig-
nificant contraction from the figure for
the last quarter of 1965. Overall non-farm
GNP remained virtually stable, the fall in
profits just about being offset by a rise in
the wage and salary bill.
The total value of consumer spending
rose quite well, though an examination of
the dissection showed that much of the
improvement was attributable to higher car
sales. There is still no sign of any general
recovery.
Private business spending on buildings
and equipment looked significantly weaker
in the latest quarter: s6som. compared
with s7osm. in the December quarter and
$675m. in the September quarter.
The most encouraging news was con-
tained in the figures for investment in
stocks. For the first time since the esti-
mates were compiled, manufacturers’
stocks declined during the March quarter.
And retail and wholesale stock increases
were very small. Normally there is a con-
siderable build-up as firms replenish
stocks which were run down by Christmas
sales.
Unfortunately we have no statistics on
the total volume of stocks around factories
and shops, but for some nine months now
fhe addition to stocks has been well below
normal and the end of the rundown must
come soon. This will provide manufac-
turers with a considerable stimulus and
improve business generally.


gbfd
R&N LEASE OR PURCHASE PLAN
A Complete, Co-ordinated Service for Industry
b
*
■■u
53
"»»■«*» ter
Hit
l .^*,
A typical building designed, manufactured, erected and leased by
R&N PROJECT / LEASE COMPANY*
We offer you a complete, single source building system, from initial planning,
building design, manufacture, erection and subsequent lease or purchase. For
details, write for a copy of our comprehensive brochure.
R
99
R&N PROJECT/LEASE CO. PTY. LTD.
NEWCASTLE: 25 Pacific Hwy., Bennetts Green, Newcastle, N.S.W. Ph. 4-8391 (10 lines)
SYDNEY: "UNION HOUSE", *247 George St., Sydney, N.S.W. Ph. 27-8941/2.
BRISBANE: 179 Elizabeth St., Brisbane, Qld. Ph. 2-1757 or 2-3721.
TOWNSVILLE: Woolcock & Laughton Sts., Townsville, Qld. Ph. 9-3218.
*A member of the R&N Statham Ltd. Group
BUSINESS BOOK REVIEW
The Good Exporting Guide
Australian Directory of Exports. 1966
Edition Published by Peter Isaacson.
GLOSSY trade directories are not in
everybody’s line and not much in
mine. But anyone in this country
picking up the Australian Directory of
Exports will, like overseas customers of
our manufacturing industries for whom
it looks primarily intended, be arrested in
their passing glances to digest its wealth
of well-illustrated material on this country
and its export products and processes in
particular.
The hand of the Department of Trade
is writ large in the 360 pages but obviously
export firms themselves had weighed in
manfully and our two big trade associa-
tions, the ACMA and the ACCA have held
more than a watching brief over its prep-
aration.
If any exporter of manufactured goods
is missing or has failed to list his address,
products, and brand names, he has only
himself to blame. Again, the range of
firms in industries, such as advertising,
banks, agents, PR consultants, publishers,
shippers, airlines and so forth servicing
our exports is detailed in full.
In helpful hints for a business trip to
Australia one learns (sic) that in most
places here men will need a jacket and
a tie for meals. This stung me, at least.
Because on a recent Sunday night I turned
up in an open shirt at the Southern Cross
for a meal with an American businessman
and was refused admittance to the dining-
room. I was following a later lead to visi-
tors in the book to bring lots of light in-
formal clothing.
Overseas customers could get the im-
pression, which is partly true, of course,
that at least in buying primary produce
from this country they will mostly have to
deal with semi-Government marketing
boards (Sir William Gunn will note the
directory makes a special point in saying
this doesn’t apply to wool!) Three of the
nine Federal marketing boards (for wheat,
dairy produce, and eggs) have statutory
powers to trade and five of the others
(for canned fruit, dried fruit, honey, meat,
and wine) have limited trading powers.
Only the Apple and Pear Board of the
nine Federal boards cannot trade. In
addition there are the fifty or so State
boards but among these trading is only
done in sorghum, sugar, and barley.
On the other hand, as another chapter
in the directory points out, the operation
of the boards themselves coupled with
Federal inspection regulations assure over-
seas customers of the highest quality rural
produce when they buy from us. No
equivalent exists for manufactured goods.
One was surprised to find no mention
of export groups in the book and nothing
much is included on minerals, our best
export prospect. So far as manufactured
exports go the running is said to be mostly
in the hands of “large and very compet-
ent export-import merchants” and those
manufacturers who’ve established special
export departments as integral parts of
their organisations and deal directly with
buyers. Some hints for smaller manufact-
urers on export groups would have been
most helpful.
In places this excellent compendium
could have done with rather firmer edit-
ing. I find on page 13 the ACMA claim-
ing that in 1964-65 manufacturing con-
tributed more than one third of Austra-
lia’s export income, whereas a little later
on manufactured exports are given as only
13 percent of total exports in that year,
which looks nearer the mark. Also it
would have been a good idea to have con-
sistently given the latest figures for ex-
ports. On one page we get 1963-64 and
on the following one, 1964-65. In another
place the book is divided into five sections,
but later the fifth mysteriously becomes
the sixth. But these are minor flaws in an
excellent publication.
J.C.H.


CRISIS AT NORTH-WEST CAPE
The towers spread over two miles and are 2½ times as high as the Sydney Harbor bridge.
THERE is nothing new about a con-
tractor losing .money on a major
governmental construction; it has
almost been the rule in recent years. But
the crisis at North-West Cape is not simply
one in which the minority Australian part-
ner, Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd.,
in a joint U.S.-Australian venture, seems
certain to lose $360,000, is likely to lose
$2,000,000, and has an outside chance of
going down $5,000,000. Nor is it even one
simply in which hundreds of sub-contrac-
tors in Western Australia have been left
unpaid because of the failures by U.S.
companies employed by the U.S. Navy
in the project (three U.S. companies have
withdrawn from various stages of the
scheme, leaving unpaid bills and obliga-
tions totalling millions of dollars).
And despite Ministerial statements, it is
certainly not simply a normal commercial
situation that results from normal com-
mercial risks. The construction of this
station was authorised by a Federal Act
of Parliament, which stipulated certain
conditions for the manner in which it
should be built. Many of those conditions
have not been met. The crisis at North-
West Cape is one affecting principles of
international commercial behaviour and
governmental responsibility. The way in
which the question is resolved will have
serious implications for any future attempt
hy the U.S. Government to have installa-
tions or facilities built in Australia.
But what really is at stake is how can
the situation be resolved and why did it
arise, anyway? The North-West Cape story
is one of confusion and delays that will
result in the U.S. Navy being at least six
months late in having its station up (it was
due for completion in March this year,
and the first stage will probably not be
finished before November). Being late is
not the only problem the U.S. Navy faces.
The political implications of unfair treat-
ment of Australian companies (if this is
so) may prove more serious than the de-
fence implications of not having its radio
working on schedule.
Concrete Industries (or Monier as it
prefers to call itself) asked for Govern-
ment help late last year in solving its U.S.
problems; it wants not only to avoid the
huge losses it could face if it has to pick
up the whole loss ticket as a result of the
withdrawal of its 75 percent major part-
ner, but also to avoid the huge legal costs
that will be involved if its $6.9 million
in claims and counter-claims in respect
of this contract have to go through the
courts mostly in the U.S.
“We have resigned ourselves to the fact
that we will not make a profit; we simply
hope we can limit the amount of the
loss,” say the top men at Monier. If
the project went reasonably well until
completion later this year, if costs can
be held, if the Navy does not proceed
with damages actions for lateness, and if
the claims and counter-claims have a
moderate success for Monier, it stands to
lose about $2 million most of it because
it will have to bear the burden of the
loss that rightly belongs to its U.S. part-
ner, Hardeman, but which Monier will
have to pay under its guarantee.
The Australian Government is inquiring
into the matter —so far it has taken six
months in doing so. But there has been
no evidence of any repetition of the top-
level discussions that are believed to have
taken place between Sir Robert Menzies
and the U.S. Ambassador last year.
Monier takes the view that the crisis
is not its fault and that as an Australian
company trying hard to get the U.S. Navy
out of the hole it was left in by the
withdrawal of the major contractor of its
choice, Monier should not face the risk
of intolerable losses that have already
chopped $lB million off its stockmarket
value, brought its shares below par, and
forced it to sell off some of its very profit-
The VLF base is on a peninsula sticking
60 miles into the Indian Ocean in a re-
mote and desolate area 750 miles north
of Perth.
able investments to provide the funds to
keep the Cape project going.
But the direct costs to Monier of the
Cape crisis are not the only problem its
participation has brought; by channelling
off large sums of Monier’s money into this
project, it has badly affected Monier’s
ability to do its other work, which in-
cludes the traditional manufacture of
building materials.
Monier has so far put up $360,000
in capital; has lent the project $2
million and still has about $l.B million
held by the U.S. Navy as “retention”
money under the contract that will only
be paid when the contract is completed.
This retention fund now totals about 5
percent of the value of work completed,
but it took great pressure from Monier
to get this percentage down from 10
percent late last year, although it is cus-
tomary in the U.S. to reduce retentions
down to five percent or lower as con-
tracts are more than 50 percent completed.
Monier faces a problem in telling its
side of the story; it cannot complain too
strongly about the Australian Govern-
ment’s delay in investigating the situation
for fear of losing any support it may have,
and it cannot protest too violently about
the U.S. Government for fear of damag-
ing its chances of negotiating a suitable
settlement.
But Monier has some friends in high
places. The U.S. legal firm which it has
retained to represent it in the U.S. on
this matter is one in which the former
U.S. Ambassador to Australia, Mr. Wil-
liam C. Battle, is a partner. Mr. Battle
signed the government -to - government
agreement in 1963 that gave the U.S. the
right to put up the station in the first
place; it seems unlikely that he would
now act for Monier if he did not con-
sider their case to be a sound one.
The history of the affair is that in
July 1963, a group of three companies,
Paul Hardeman Inc., of the U.S., Con-
crete Industries (Monier) Ltd., and its
then associate company, Hutcherson Bros.,
were awarded a s3l million contract to
build stage one of the U.S. Navy radio
station. They had 960 days to complete
the project. ,
The U.S. Navy awarded the contract
to this group, whose bid was only SIOO,OOO
below the next lowest, after “an
extensive review of the low bidder’s quali-
fications.” As Hardeman, the 75 percent
partner, had done many other defence


contracts, its standing with the U.S. Gov-
ernment was high.
By May, 1965, its problems had be-
come so great that it could not put up
the money needed to keep the project
going. Monier was left in a position
where it had to keep the project alive, or
else become responsible under its guaran-
tee for the difference between the tender
price and the cost of the Navy getting
someone else to complete the project.
Monier took the only course really open;
it agreed tc put up more money to finance
the project but insisted that it take over
its control and management as it claimed
that Hardeman’s performance had been
poor. In the 22 months of Hardeman
management, the cost of work completed
on the project was $U.5.20.6 million
an average rate of about $900,000 a
month; since Monier took over at the end
of May, 1965, the monthly average has
jumped to $1.2 million as the value of
work completed up to March 31 reached
$31.6 million. When Monier took charge
not a tower had been started; in the year
since then, the company has completed all
the major and involved parts of the con-
tract despite the withdrawal of the U.S.
subcontractor who was to have erected
them.
As a result of this, quite apart from
political consideration, it seems unlikely
that the navy would proceed with a dam-
ages claim against Concrete Industries be-
cause of the project’s lateness, but the
continuing risk of such a claim is an in-
tolerable burden to have hanging over the
head of the company.
As it is, the U.S. Navy would be get-
ting the base cheaper than it originally
estimated even if it paid Monier enough
to clear it of loss altogether. The project
will now cost about $U.5.43 million com-
pared with the tender price of $U.5.35
million and the U.S. Navy’s estimate of
$45 million that it was quite willing to
pay when the project was first planned.
There is no doubt that the Hardeman-
Monier contract price was close to the
wind; even without the problems of rejec-
tion of materials and Hardeman’s default,
there probably would have been losses,
but nothing like those now likely. The
point for Monier was that the company
was not really counting on making sub-
stantial profits from the first contract
anyway; it considered the profits would
come from the sub-contracts awarded its
associate companies, particularly if the
group got the contract to do the more
conventional construction stages two and
three in addition to stage one.
Of course there have been other fac-
tors adding to the project’s cost. The
remarkable upsurge in developmental work
in W.A. particularly in iron ore
since the contract for the base was signed
has meant that demand for labor has
soared and work force turnover has almost
trebled to about 25 percent.
What does Monier want? Reduced
to its simplicity, it wants the Australian
Government to negotiate with the U.S.
Government to establish a basis on which
Monier will not be held liable for astron-
omical losses it claims were not its fault.
Its management thinks it has a good case,
that the machinery exists to enable the
Australian Government to act and that the
machinery also exists for the U.S. Govern-
ment to behave in a generous way with
Monier.
Apart from the evidence of its success-
ful attempts to speed up the job after
taking over responsibility, the Monier
position is further strengthened by indica-
tions that Monier only became associated
with Hardeman in this venture because of
the statutory requirement that an Aus-
tralian company participate in the con-
tract, and as a result of an official intro-
duction to Hardeman through a Govern-
ment department.
The Australian Act stipulated that the
two Governments will consult from time to
time at the request of either on any
matters connected with the station and
its use. It said at all stages of the con-
struction and maintenance of the station
the maximum practicable use will be made
of Australian resources. “Arrangements
for giving effect to this article shall be as
determined from time to time by the two
Governments.” There appears to have been
little serious attempt by the Australian
Government to ensure that these condi-
tions were met during the construction.
FOR instance, the project is no longer
being effectively carried out by a joint
venture of Australian and U.S. interests
as provided in the act, and unless the con-
tract is altered only the Australian partner
will effectively carry the burden of un-
limited liability.
Yet, as Sir Garfield Barwick said when
introducing the authorising Act in 1963:
“The prime contract for the initial con-
struction phase may be awarded only to a
joint venture of Australian and U.S. in-
terests. Of course all its contractors
and their personnel will be bound by Aus-
tralian law, and the U.S. Government
agreed to conform to the provisions of
applicable Commonwealth and State laws,”
he said. “The station is to be established,
maintained, and operated without cost to
Australia.”
But reality is different. The U.S. Navy’s
denial of Monier claims (and it is quite
entitled to) will now require appeal to
further administrative tribunals in the U.S.,
with only a limited right of appeal to the
civil courts. Monier, which has no previous
experience in processing claims through
these administrative tribunals, says this is
clearly not in keeping with the spirit of
Sir Garfield’s speech.
Despite appeals from Monier, who keep
pressing the un-Parliamentary point that
time means money, the Holt Government
has never departed from a “no com-
mittment” stance, although it has ex-
pressed its concern that the contract should
proceed in a satisfactory atmosphere.
At one stage it appeared that the gov-
ernment had decided to pretend it had no
responsibilities in the matter. In March
the Minister for Defence, Mr. Allen Fair-
hall, said in Parliament that after the U.S.
Navy had let the contract the venture had
become a purely commercial operation.
In this badly advised statement he
added that the government could not in-
tervene to help unpaid creditors of a U.S.
company on the N.W. base project, and
that there was “the ordinary recourse of
law for those concerned.”
Mr. Fairhall clearly wants nothing to
do with the question as his department’s
concern is only about defence, not the
matters of international relations involved
in this contract. However, the government
department entrusted with the consulta-
tion with the Americans under the Act is
Mr. Fairhall’s Defence Ministry, where
Commander Swan is the liaison officer. He
appears to consider his responsibilities
under this statute to be limited to ques-
tions of the project’s use rather than to the
problem of its construction, despite the
fact that both aspects were stated in the
Act.
Early last month, the Prime Minister,
Mr. Holt, re-entered the scene in reply to
a letter from Mr. John Blaiklock, Monier’s
chairman. Mr. Holt’s concern was that the
project should proceed to a successful
completion and he said that he had asked
the officers making the governmental en-
quires into the affair to present their re-
port as soon as possible.
On the score of whether the U.S. Navy
is legally able to help Monier, the U.S.
Defence Act empowers departments to
modify or amend contracts and to make
advance payments without regard for other
provisions of law.
And Admiral Peter Corradi, former
chief of Bureau of Yards and Docks, whose
office manages the contract, has said. “We
will always talk to a contractor about his
problems. When it is realised that con-
tract terms cannot be met because of con-
ditions over which the contractor has no
control and that these terms should be re-
viewed, we will make an honest effort to
arrive at an equitable agreement to modify
or adjust.”
There is little doubt about the clear
reluctance of the U.S. Navy to follow the
requirements of the Australian Act about
using Australian materials as much as pos-
sible; far more U.S. materials by value
have been used in the first stage than local
materials.
Apart from anything else, it is bad in-
ternational manners for the U.S. Govern-
ment to have an installation built in a
foreign country at a cost that has, in effect,
been subsidised by the losses suffered in its
construction by companies domiciled in
that country.
It could be that the U.S. Government
will eventually take steps to see that
Monier does not lose more than its
$360,000 capital contribution to the joint
venture, and that it is refraining from giv-
ing this assurance in an attempt to frighten
the company into completing the job to
the best of its endeavours.
However, it seems that what happens
next is up to the Australian Government.
If it takes the view that the U.S. Govern-
ment should recognise the strong moral
obligation it has to the Australian com-
panies involved, then the pressure it could
bring to bear would be irresistible. Who-
ever is responsible is taking a long time
to make up his mind.


J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
. G. North, D. A. North,
. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,.
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
WILD CAT
PAGES
Spinning a Good Yam
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
THE friendly talks between textile processors STP and Tennyson Textiles demon-
strate that there are parts of the textile industry that are a far better investment
than the stockmarket realises.
The reasons for these talks (not about
a takeover as last week’s announcement
made clear, but possibly about a merger)
are simple as any reader of THE
BULLETIN of last January 22 will know.
Apart from the usual matters of greater
efficiency through economies of scale, of
wider technological knowledge, and of ex-
porting economies, there is one special
factor that dominates consideration of
merger moves by users of synthetic yarn.
That factor is the buying power of the
yarn users against the yarn maker. The
greater the volume of yarn usage by any
one customer the keener the yarn pro-
ducer is to supply him, and the more
favorable the prices that can be negoti-
ated, on top of the normal discounts for
volume.
The timing of the STP-Tennyson move
is of great significance in this context,
because Allied Chemicals is in the process
of opening its new fine denier nylon plant
at Penrith, to provide the first local com-
petition for Fibremakers, the ICIANZ
subsidiary. There are also suggestions that
Courtaulds may also install a plant to take
local advantage of the strong import de-
mand for its fine denier yarn.
So the yarn makers could be very inter-
ested in trying to tie up big yarn users
in this competitive situation; they could
even be interested enough, if the battle
for business gets sufficiently tough, to do
what Courtaulds, in particular, has done
in Britain and make acquisitions among
yarn users to ensure their outlets.
If this developed it would clearly be
in the best interests of yarn users to get
together as much as possible to increase
their value to a yarn maker in a take-
over, rather than be gobbled up separately
and cheaper.
It seems likely then that there are
several reasons suggesting that other large
companies could well join the STP-
Tennyson grouping if suitable terms could
be arranged. Diversified synthetic users
like Osti could well fit into such a pattern.
And Bruck Mills (with its sizable share
holding in Tennyson) could also be an
eventual possibility.
The clear policy of the STP group
under the astute Mr. Claude Alcorso in
the past few years has been toward build-
ing up its synthetics volume in order to
buy better; it has expanded rapidly enough
(through acquisitions like Sekers Silk and
its own developments) to be able to re-
duce the selling price of its product con-
siderably because of these production
economies.
The interests held in STP by rival fibre
makers Courtaulds (through James Nelson
Australia) and ICI (through Carrington
and Dewhurst) would not be enough to
prevent STP moving as it wished; already
these two holdings have been reduced as
a proportion by other large issues for
takeovers.
But the role of Toyo Rayon, a 15 per-
cent shareholder in Tennyson, could be
more significant. Toyo may welcome a
situation in which their market for grey
goods in Australia (often for processing in
Australia for re-export) could be sub-
stantially and permanently increased by
a formal link with STP. It is well aware
of the potential; at some times STP has
been a greater purchaser of Toyo cloth
than has Tennyson.
ONE of the biggest users of synthetic
yarn in Australia is Prestige, the
hosiery section of whose business
appears to have run into some competitive
snags in the year that ended in March,
if the downturn in the share price for other
hosiery makers is any guide.
But the volume of synthetics that goes
into its other textile products gives Prestige
a key position in the industry, and, even
though its earning rate may be slipping,
the slip should not show too much more
in its share price; already it is giving a
handsome 6.9 percent dividend yield.
When the new capital ranks fully in the
current year and, if profits show no im-
provement, earning rate will be down to
about 20 percent (still enough to cover
the 12-| percent dividend). The group’s
buffer against fluctuations is considerably
less effective now than it was a year ago.
On the facts available at present, the
current year looks like seeing a further
slip. It is believed the 1965-66 result was
despite increased sales. In addition it was
despite the inclusion of three months re-
sults from two takeovers, the Heathermoor
and Brandella groups. The annual report
and the annual meeting on July 25 could
provide shareholders with a further. guide
to the current year, and it may be worth
waiting until then to make investment de-
cisions.
INVESTMENT in the railway rolling
stock business has gone a little off the
rails. Companies with only a rela-
tively small stake in the business are being-
tarred with the same brush by investors
following the “revised” profit fall of A. G.
Healing (whose A. E. Goodwin subsidiary
is in trains) and the problems at Tulloch.
Despite its increased profit and dividend
of a couple of months ago, shares in Com-
eng Holdings are irrationally back down
around their lowest level for the year. And
the same goes for Clyde Industries, whose
50 cent shares have slid from $1.04 when
the recent interim report was released to
a low of 91 cents.
Clyde’s reported profit fall, for the same
period when Healing’s earnings net of tax
crashed 75 percent, w*as a mere 3 percent
from what was, after all, a record year.
The volume of selling in Clyde shares
is from Perpetual Trustees, who appar-
ently took fright at Healing’s tumble and
the interim report from Tulloch that 1965-
66 profits would be lower. Clyde and Tul-
loch have a common interest in rolling
stock, but one of Tulloch’s chief problems
was peculiar to Tulloch industrial
action which disrupted production.
But it seems likely that only about tea
percent of Clyde’s assets are in heavy
engineering. The rest is in light engineer-
ing and merchandising.
The chairman of Clyde (Mr. R. E.
Purves) has always been most asset con-
scious. So the group has a tremendous pro-
portion of funds in real estate.
But assets have to work. Clyde’s in-
vestment future may depend on selling
off non-income producing assets and a
return of capital to rejuvenate the earning
rate.
The immediate prospect, however,,
seems to be of a very satisfactory overall
result for 1965-66, even though the com-
pany’s unsuccessful ventures like Clyde
Batteries, Glazebrooks, and Regent Motors
may again contribute nothing.
ONE method of looking for shares likely
to rise is to draw up a list of com-
panies that have just completed ex-
tensive expansion projects or soon will
do so for which capital has already
been provided and the production from
which seems assured of a ready market.
A Sydney stockbroker has advised his
clients to look seriously at some of these
stocks, particularly James Hardie Asbestos,
which is due to report on the year to
March later this month, and which has
“not been generous” to shareholders in
the last seven years, as funds have been
employed in building up the company’s
earning power.
Australian and Kandos Cement is also


o
pAR/S
NEW
YORK
■ ■ ■
around the world
or around Australia
the WALES Travel Service
can take care of all details
The Bank of New South Wales, Australia’s largest
travel service, can handle every aspect of your trip —*
accommodation, bookings, insurance, passport, travel
finance.
You don’t have to be a Wales customer . . . the
Wales Travel Service is available to everyone.
w>
Before you make any
travel bookings,
consult
the mLES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
AUSTRALIA’S FIRST BANK
mu
A6536.10*
recommended on this score, with the
broker pointing out that after calls are
paid on the latest one for five issue the
company’s capital of sl3£ million will
give a iow ratio of capital to ton of in-
stalled capacity of only $lO dollars when
the new 450,000 ton unit is commissioned
at Geelong.
Others he recommends in this category
are ICIANZ, Dunlop, McPhersons, and
CIG.
THE Kauri timber group has been close
to collapse before and could emerge
bloody but unbowed from its present
situation touch wood. However, the
weapons it has left to fight with are pain-
fully few. The main ones, capital write-
down and sale of some assets, have already
been used, yet the group returned to loss
operations in the six months to February.
Interim dividend has been omitted, and
the chances of a final are remote even
though directors predict a small profit
for the full year.
In 1964-65 total dividend was cut from
10 to 4 percent after profit had slumped
48 percent to equal a mere 6.1 percent
on capital. Earnings, if any, are sure to
be lower this year.
Being in timber is bad enough because
of the current drop in the rate of home
building. But the prospects are even worse
for a group which has a proven inability
to hold its own when competition gets
really stiff. Directors describe the future
as uncertain and that seems optimistic.
UNITED URANIUM would earn
about 25 percent on its present paid
capital if the Mount Evelyn silver,
lead, and zinc mine produced the profits
expected. At the recent annual meeting the
chairman, Mr. J. T. Hiatt, told a share-
holder that profits of about $500,000 a year
were foreseen. This figure was based on a
target ore treatment rate of 30,000 tons
annually..
Since investigations into the project have
not yet reached the stage of final budget,
his predictions are a little daring. The
Mount Evelyn deposit is believed to be
comparatively small, but the ore is of a
higher grade than that at Broken Hill and
the full extent of mineralisation has not
yet been determined.
But one thing does appear likely. Share-
holders will not be waiting until 1970 or
after for their next dividend. Unlike some
less fortunate uranium producers, United
has found an alternative to keep it occu-
pied until economic uranium sales are
possible again. Moreover, if several other
prospects in close proximity to Mount
Evelyn prove valuable, silver, lead, and
zinc may prove to be a more lucrative
and permanent alternative than expected.
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or ordered
for $l.lO including postage from the
same Library, Box 4088, G.P.0.,
Sydney. A few copies of the 1963 Index
are also still available.


s
.
3
Thinking about
new plant
expansion?
If so, you are probably thinking about the many complexities to be over-
come. The problems of design, of how to expand or modify an existing
plant or add process or plant capacity. Of how to effect these improve-
ments with the minimum interference to present plant output. The
problems are many and various, however on top of all of these factors
you’re undoubtedly concerned about getting the best value for your
construction dollar.
This is where we can help you, because this is one of the fields in which
we specialise. Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant
fabrication, we are equipped in terms of experience and facilities to save
you time and money in engineering and construction of your project.
Our present clients include a wide range of top industrial companies in
a wide variety of industries. Moreover, 60% of our total contracts each
year come from companies that have built with us before. So why not
phone us for further details? Your enquiry will only cost five cents.
WARDROPE& CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
24-32 O'Riordon Street, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. 69.1727, 69.3620
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Wunderlich Works Wonders
THE market has already been proved
wrong about Wunderlich Ltd. this
year; it has not yet fully learned its
lesson. The shares went as low as $2.20
their lowest for 10 years earlier this
year before last month’s good profit and
dividend news, and now at $2.70 are still
well below historical values to yield an
over-generous 5.6 percent.
Investors still looking at Wunderlich
simply as the nation’s biggest terra-cotta
tile company that severely burned its
fingers in the asbestos pipe game are
missing the point in maiking the shares
down in keeping with the latest gloomy
building statistics and the success of rival
concrete tiles.
Last year’s 33.3 percent profit lift and
increased dividend (from percent to
15 percent) had very little to do with
terra-cotta tiles and nothing to do with any
cash benefits from the end of the Wun-
derlich-Humes asbestos pipe arrangement,
the loss on which had been provided for
in the 1964 accounts.
The reason for big news from Wunder-
lich (that it did more business in 1965
and expects to be able to keep up its new
dividend rate in future) is that the com-
pany is going through a dramatic change
in character.
The growing significance of its non-tile
operations (particularly aluminium build-
ing products) probably had a lot more to
do with last year’s higher profits than
tiles; in view of the fall of almost 20 per-
cent in terra-cotta tile production in the
last 10 years, this diversification is just
as well.
Not that Wunderlich is abdicating from
its role as king of the terra-cotta tile
business in the face of assaults made on
its market by the 60 percent jump in
concrete tiles during the past decade; it
is replying to the challenge by planning
the complete modernisation and expan-
sion of its Rosehill, N.S.W., tile plant
in line with the latest overseas develop-
ments.
But the main reason for the $f mil-
lion spent on plant and machinery last
year was in the substantially larger
capacity for aluminium windows and doors
at Sunshine, Victoria, where production
will begin this month.
Aluminium has its problems, too, with
the window business alone having far too
many uneconomic operators in it who
must soon face a day of reckoning. But
Wunderlich is in a strong position to make
the most of this rapidly expanding market,
not only because of its entrenched role
in the building industry but also because
it has a valuable overseas franchise in
aluminium window and curtain walling
design from Cupples Products Corporation
of the U.S.—a company whose acquisi-
tion by Alcoa involved a lengthy anti-trust
action. This means that Alcoa have
“friendly” links with Wunderlich that
could be significant for both parties, par-
ticularly following the recent Alcoa move
into Melbourne’s Dowell Australia Ltd.
It is also significant that rising sales
were not the only reason for Wunderlich’s
profit rise last year as “continued improve-
ments in manufacturing and marketing
methods and other economies” helped,
too —as, of course, did investment allow-
ances.
However, if last year’s 21 percent rise
in debtors is more of a guide than the
seven percent increase in stock, Wunder-
lich’s sales may have shown quite an
increase in 1965, although it is noteworthy
that the company did not reveal the level
of bad debts, provided out of profits and
merely maintained last year’s balance sheet
provision of $220,000 against debtors of
$3.1 million (a better than seven percent
provision).
Earning rate on total funds, including
long-term liabilities of a mere $336,800,
is at its highest level for the past five
years at least. Liquidity is very satisfac-
tory, despite the recent establishment of
two new aluminium window factories and
enlargement of another and the increase
in capacity of two of its five tile factories.
The last call for capital was a 1961-62 issue
at 75 percent premium.
Wunderlich endured several years of
profit stagnation, burdened by a profitless
excursion into asbestos pipes with Humes
Ltd., which tied up as much as $1,260,000
at 1964 balance date. After writing-off
$600,000 to general reserve in that year,


INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CREDIT CORPORATION
OF AUSTRAIIA UNITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF $4,000,000 DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a. 2 YEARS
7%
p.a. 5 YEARS
7i%
p.a.7 YEARS
71%
p.a. 10 YEARS
SHORT TERM STOCK ALSO AVAILABLE 3,6, 9 AND 12 MONTHS*
Applications may proceed only on the form attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is obtainable from:
any member of a recognized stock exchange
any branch of the A.N.Z. Bank Ltd.
any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
any office of IHCC of Australia Ltd.
any branch of lan Potter & Co.
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co. and Australian United Corporation Ltd. H t77s.D<«
the company—and Humes—subsequently
sold the venture at reduced book value
to James Hardie.
Wunderlich now has eight plants devoted
to architectural and industrial metalwork
throughout Australia. It also markets metal
ceiling panels produced by Armstrong
Cork Co. of U.S.A.
Asbestos-cement sheets are produced at
three plants. Industry statistics show this
has been a growing market in the three
years to June, 1965, but with some levelling
off in 1965-66.
A stoneware pipe and one plastic factory
complete Wunderlich’s manufacturing
capacity.
The company operates around Australia,
except in Perth where it has a substantial
share investment in its associate H. L.
Brisbane and Wunderlich. Listed shares
and debentures with book value of $366,000
and market value of $1,072,000 demon-
strate the conservatism in the accounts.
With Wunderlich doing well against
building industry’s trend (the chairman
Mr. C. Wunderlich, conceded that there
was “an unusually low level of activity
in the industry”), the prospects for the
company when the industry turns up again
should be excellent provided Wunder-
lich can keep up its penetration of the
non-roofing market.
End of February 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Gross profit
s’ooo (1) 1672 1793 1771 1991 2279
Tax s’ooo 476 502 456 570 590
Depreciation
s’ooo 634 671 687 737 777
Net profit s'ooo 562 620 628 684 912
Dividend rate
•percent 12 % 12% 12% 12% 15
Earning rate
percent 17.2 16.6 16.7 17.0 22.8
Earning rate on
total funds p.c. 7.3 6 8 7 5 7 3 9.5
Current ratio 1.9 21 16 2.0 18
Fixed assets
s'ooo 4859 4736 4643 5257 5693
Dividend yield
(2) 3.8 44 42 51 56
Price/earnings
ratio (2) 19.2 17.2 17.8 14 5 11 9
High price (3) 3 65 3 35 3 42 2 70 2 89
Low price (3) 3 03 2.75 2.65 2.25 2 20
1. Profit before tax and depreciation.
2. End of May, month accounts presented.
3. Calendar year.
MINING
Leaders in the Rutile Boom
Reflecting a welcome policy of
keeping shareholders fully informed
on latest developments, Associated
Minerals Consolidated Ltd., the largest
single producer of rutile and zircon in
Australia and the world has amended its
February forecast of steady profits for
the year to June 30, 1966, with a further
interim report estimating a 25 percent
drop on last year’s profits. Despite this
the company expects to maintain last
year’s dividend rate and to return to nor-
mal operations next year. Meanwhile, the
other Gold Fields-controlled company,
Wyong Minerals Ltd., seems set for record
production and profits in the current year
to June 30.
Shareholders of Associated Minerals
were warned at the annual meeting last
October that benefits of the $2 million
expansion program, involving a new min-
ing and concentrating plant at Big Swan
Bay and a separation plant at Hexham,
would not be apparent until the 1966-67
year.
Production in the 44 weeks to May
4, 1966, has totalled 38,495 tons of rutile
and 42,359 tons of zircon. On current rates
production for the' full year should total
almost 47,000 tons of rutile and 51,000
tons of zircon, considerably below last
year’s levels of close to 50,000 tons of
rutile and 55,000 tons of zircon. However,
when the Big Swan Bay-Hexham com-
plex is operating at full capacity, possibly
by 1968/69, the company’s annual pro-
duction rates should be in the order of
100,000 tons of rutile and 120,000 tons
of zircon. The new facilities have been
initially designed to increase production
by 50 percent with provision for rapid
future duplication.
Future prospects are enhanced by the
fact that the company’s forward sales
position is very satisfactory. Including its
ten-year contract with American Potash &
Chemical Corporation for 210,000 tons of
rutile over a 10-year period (shipments
began December, 1964), the company
held forward contracts for a total of
359,000 tons of heavy minerals worth over
$22 million at last balance date. Certain
price escalation safeguards are also in-
cluded in the contracts.
With its second dredge the “Sandpiper”
in operation since June last year, Wyong
Minerals in the 44 weeks to May 5, 1966,
had already produced substantially over
last year’s total production of 12,807 tons
of rutile and 10,084 tons of zircon. On
current rates the full year’s figures should
be in the order of 19,000 tons of rutile and
14,500 tons of zircori compared with the
company’s original estimates of 17,000
tons of rutile and 13,000 tons of zircon.
A fact that augurs well for the future
is that the new dredge will have only been
operating at its full capacity about 150
percent of that of the original dredge
for about half of the current year. So
despite an anticipated fall-off in head
grade, directors confidently expect that
this will be more than compensated by
appreciably higher throughputs and fur-
ther, if minor, improvements in efficiency.
Although the expansion program has
cost Wyong Minerals some $450,000, direc-
tors consider that no dividend restriction
will be necessary in view of contracts held,
which guarantee the sale of the whole of


If its
Banking!
W 1
MmHil
a a Q U
■k■ HP iV
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S export revenue from
beach sand minerals, which in 1965
totalled $27.6 million, is expected
to rise to $4O million by 1970. This
should be partly due to price rises. More
significantly many producers are under-
taking expansion plans in anticipation
of increased demand, particularly for
rutile and also for zircon.
These and other developments should
result in annual Australian production
of both rutile and zircon rising from
levels of over 200,000 tons in 1965 to
over 300,000 tons within the next few
years.
the company’s output. What is more,
in late 1964, the company entered into a
new three-year agreement for the sale
of its rutile and zircon production at
prices well in excess of those received
under previous contracts. In addition, its
agreement with Associated Minerals to
sell its total uncommitted rutile output
was renewed last June for a further three
years at prices more in line with those
offering on world markets.
Production from its North Stradbroke
Island leases is not due to commence until
July, but Consolidated Rutile Ltd., which
joined the Stock Exchange lists only last
November, is already a market favorite
with its ordinary shares selling at over
twice their par value. Apart from a
brief statement in May that produc-
tion would commence on schedule, no
further information has been Ireleased
since the prospectus was issued in October
last year. There it was stated that the
proposed capital expenditure of $2,500,000
(covered almost entirely by proceeds of
the share issues) was expected to support
an annual production rate of 30,000 tons
of rutile and 25,000 tons of zircon.
Annual gross revenue of almost $3.2
million was calculated from prices below
the averages at which forward sales had
been made. At that stage these covered
over 30% of the first three years’ pro-
duction but it is believed that since then
the company has negotiated forward con-
tracts for a further 30% of its produc-
tion. These look better, too, when we
compare prices for 1965 contracts of
around $BO per ton for rutile and $5O per
ton for zircon in the prospectus with
figures of $92-$96 per ton of rutile and
$5O-$54 ton of zircon for Australian ex-
ports in March, 1966.
The company’s method of mining by
bulldozing deposits from the top of high
dunes, which average 350 feet above sea
level, is unique in the industry, but it
plans to use conventional equipment with
a proven performance record under
similar conditions.
It is believed that Titanium and Zir-
conium Industries Pty. Ltd., a wholly
owned CRA subsidiary which holds adjoin-
ing leases on North Stradbroke Island is
studying these new mining techniques
with a view to exploiting its own high
dune deposits in addition to doubling pro-
duction from existing dredging operations.


The man
who leaves no will
may be
leaving trouble
How many people think about making a Will? Almost everyone,
at one time or another. And how many die intestate? Their
assets are sold up, often on an unfavourable market, and the
proceeds distributed to a regulation set of beneficiaries as
laid down by the Laws of Intestacy .. . often with unpleasant
results. Is this what you would want for your family?
It’s so easy to give your family the final protection of a
Will. Don't hesitate—call the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company.
They'll help you to plan your Estate, and then have a Will
drawn up by your Solicitor that precisely expresses your
wishes.
But—why a Trustee Company? Because if you appoint
the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company to be your executor, you
have the services of a friendly, experienced, reliable adminis-
trator. Union-Fidelity gives you what no individual can . . .
security and continuity of service.
Call Union-Fidelity right away. Or send this coupon for
free booklet, “When Making a Will”.
UNION-FIDELITY
nasrce
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT, GEELONG, HAMILTON, TRARALGON, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ALBURY, CANBERRA,
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, CAIRNS AND CHARLEVILLE
100 Exhibition Street, Melbourne
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
1 would appreciate a complimentary copy of your "When Making m
Will" Booklet.
NAM E. ;
ADDRESS
Vim
W
11214
UT50.102N
COMMODITIES
Prices Fall For
Hides, Sugar, Tin
HIDE prices locally have followed the
overseas markets’ slight downturn
over the past few weeks. Losses
have been only marginal, hardly scratch-
ing the rise marked up in the past year.
In Australia, the official index of rub-
ber and hide prices rose 26.2 percent in
the 10 months to April 30 last. In the
U.S. and other countries the rise was
greater. Leather and shoe prices have
followed hides up.
Japanese buyers have been more reluc-
tant for over a month now, and this has
evidently been the main basis of the weak-
ness. Also, U.S. export quotas have been
relaxed slightly, but still constitute a con-
siderable cut in expected future supplies.
Prices in the U.S. continue to rise,
rather unsteadily, mainly because of strong
gains in shoe production. Meanwhile, Du
Pont, producer of the most successful
synthetic leather, “Corfam,” reports that
the main problem is to supply enough to
meet demand.
LAST week London sugar prices fell
to their lowest level since Septem-
ber last year £stg.lBJ a ton. This
is 15/- above the all-time low.
Even the combination of a continued
slide in stocks held by traders (who are
not committed to the producers’ support
scheme) and the U.K. seamen’s strike
could not halt the price fall.
A higher than expected European beet
planting disappointed traders and prob-
ably triggered the weakness. So far pro-
ducers have held to their £23-| a ton
minimum price, but the latest events in
the free market must weaken the resolve
of some.
HIGHER output in Thailand and a
more aggressive stockpile sales
policy by the LT.S. Government
have cut London tin prices. At around
£stg. 1275 a ton last week, the London
Metal Exchange quote is about £75 down
over four weeks.
Highest level this year was £1430 late
in January, and the peak last year was
more than £1620, also in January.
Thailand, which for some time has been
selling almost solely to the U.S., recently
sent several hundred tons of the metal
to Europe. It is believed that lower U.S.
stockpile selling prices caused the switch.
The basic supply/demand gap has been
narrowing for more than a year now,
while U.S. releases have more than filled
the gap.
With quieter political conditions in
Malaya and Bolivia, consumers have been
less determined to build up stocks recently,
for Thailand’s output has risen more
strongly than expected last year by
3500 tons to 19,000 and is expected
to continue to do so. So prices may fall
all the way to £l2OO at which level
the U.S. stockpile releases will, on past
indications, be cut.


Share
Par
j Div.
Year
Week 1
Fri.
1966
T urnover
Yield %
Value
1 cents
1 ago
ago I
close
High | Low
Syd.
Melb.
Div.| Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
2.00
2 15 j
2 13
2 35, 1 921 5,500
6,400
1
Ampol Exp.
.50
1.13
1 311
1 261 1 45. .85; 33,050
28,400
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
4.20
5.00
5 001 5 52
4 80
700
1,7001
|
A.O.G.
.50
2.40
2 40;
2.39
2.60
2 25
9,250
2,000
B.H. South
.50
12
2.39
2.40 j
2 47
2.90; 2 24
15,250
11,050
5
117 8
C.R.A.
.50
8
3.82
4.36,
4 82
4 90
3.92
10,800
29,300
1
7 4 4
C'wlth Min.
1 00
7
1.82
2.28|
2 25
2 40
1.90
2,100
4,600
3
6 6 0
K. 1. Scheel.
.50
10
1 45
1 93.
1 88
3 25
1.80
800
1,540
Mount Isa
.50
5
3 77
4 02
4.04
4 55
3.92
29,248
37,850
1
2 j 1.7
Mt. Morgan
1.00
12
1 98
2 20|
2 16
2 49
1 90
7,400
4,300
5
8, 11 0
Mt. Lyell
.25
3
1 08
1.36
1 32
1 46
1 25
3,200
8,300
1
9j 4 1
New B.H.
.62
38
3.98
4.42|
4.75
5. 28
4 42
500
1,400
8
0 11.3
Oil Search
.50
.19
. 1 9.
17
.19
12
14,450
6,300
Renison
.50
10
6 25
7 00
7 00
7 50
5 00
6,100
Santos
.25
1 97
2.80
2.85j
2 90
1 40
7,800
3,000
West. Min.
.50
10
2.45
4 451
4 88
5.01
2 45
47,050
38.800
2
0; 2 2
Woodside
.50
.28
,7l|
.73
.74
.24
10,500
30,100
i
5 5 5.;; • fHI'Swl ft* n 5 § 2 fc-SS 2 2 g § § 3 5! 5 *”• S S 2 3 2 =! £- ” c h? Cg Hs2f <3
hrParil25£SP?>nb»*-H|f?iS^
r;«? M irr i|y= - br*f*
• 8 | 1-' ’= s * > »if V*’ =>?'»*»* g 5? ? = 3
3* Z
|V> m h ro ►“•*-**-■ *— niw-Mro w »- w w to w» w w to w w r j w toto w ro — < •— w
WlflUlOWOWUlOUlVJlinV'OOOyiOOOlAOUlOOOOUiyiOUlOOOOUiytWWOWmOOUtOOlPUiOUiWWOU'OOOOOViOOOVijiDVU'U'VflWVlOUlUlOUl
OOOOO OOOOOOoOOOOOOOOoOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOO 0000000 0000©0000000©000000000000
w w w »_* WWW H(Omm tow W w wwww W ww w W w w w W
H4kOOOWWUl'4 0''sJtksJUOli’C0N < *J^0 k OW'>JUl0«OOOO[U'4OOOVfv4'<30»U"J0C'U»^OUl*Mi>
ro in m m too m m vn to to invn uito in A M vn -o vn c* o wuim
in in o in In vn vn to vn in o-
wto w vmw m foi-»A Xk <_m ru\*> wh w w* o www .£• w w kj nj w w fo w vi> to x* vm w m vn ro w vj, »— w wkj wwro \ph
i>-0®'- < 'JlNj33'JMUiN'o;->r*OH*-0^a r aC5i?-Wa>C&CO , AO-7 6>. , 0
g>fflO.OrOinO©OOOOCf»‘WO»N>OirOoOUirO(»CDC(»HOuiO'0'JH'si^aw®ANC'JOWlA*-'X)QU»Ol/l*JOO<5H'OOfel- , OMNCDy|HCUir'CSOEUiOUl^ailll
Wto —• vmw Wto wq. rorow ww e*- x. — >n roto towrorowtoww wo rovovo in row HHHr-wtoy.rcVuHHAUikt-pMH w www ro w
§
c
w
'ouioorovnvnvovnvnw roo» w-oi»HsiU»owc* h4 'JO^ £r^'-''- w to to l*» ® W •orooo Xk A-o'j'*j'AHCroMHrjairoui6aa:a)Uow[r>.'JO^cS'jNjoAO
uicro^*^oo^omcoo^ OM^®C>'00»w^oo 0 ®c»iflu<'OraoAOOwMuiwaHPAOii'<rO'4»uiOi*'MriQwuiuuncDUioou>H 0 coAc*jjui(j>x»oinMinw
mm w ujm HfjMui In-t* ro r< -" w t-,J ro M,NJ * jM *“* toWW vntow to www row
"*4i>iCOtoa»vn\* 4 <U'-.ruirMoowo > o l 1 i *52 t>, «l?'f u ' v! ' 0MS,r,i * 0MM,flr 'J0 w^a3Oi n woA^o>jo^(CNSj^ma
iMiPOijii*j»*-'C‘ino>JocQooMC3oi«;ouMM- i O u,w MOooa)j’oiuioAu)OOcDOO‘X)sjuiouoiriuiwcQOHnoinoc‘a- • j -jvjvj^uiCxouu7]
H
W
w kj m v»w to to w m MNWNHMffww O' x» kj i*>wtoM wVmwWwwo toiox* yifor- wroMMUiMlnro wtnotowoww tow
ir |^ i L/hd win oo .0 w
Moai£Dowoooooo»-'Ooouanuu»offl*iiuiooiMO®M-t»Uuiiyi®' M o , o{ccouiooijj® , (Dr«:4>ircinNiOiikffl(T‘iAW'sj(roiwiroi»ii>Owr«jMOoooooo
r
wro wh wr»jw u» forut-Mr- o Xk w x. x» m n wm rouuo «*ww ww wuwLnrovoujwwxkVn— 'winww ro www rv>w
cn
CTiMvjoirX>roViv^MMfv > VoDo*-‘'jruuirvjO'OirO tJ iPO' Ap , uiin0(j-Ln0a)x)Ui000MvjMUirvHACDwc , o<»>i>4O^ff-'JiMMji0
0^oirc , .oui»aoo-o-^aMMajAaiooMjJOONCo°0'ui»>iNUiO'JO , >MWWOwouiu 1 Ao N *no
h mm i\? m in . . wro m •ohm Vm wto •—• wv*» w- w m m
loro lo Ain/O'jNjO Vo oo witoWo- vr.OtoGja proroui wyi m AO-' vn o x> •— o wwotoo -out vwwro
roa> oroVib- wtnVi' o woo c? avm £rotowo"orotoXkOO w ® P w it aw a In -.i ojj’o Vi b’uo In >ib V-j-^
ino oo oo ooocoUioooooin ooin ooo poooovnininuioo inOooinovnyjlnooovM/iOinvvc co cc moinlnooomoovn uiO O
OO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOO OOOOOOOOOOOOQO OOOOOoWOOOOOOOOOOO O O w OOOOOOOOOOO OOO
f\i M H A H OH to H MU<
w iu ro cd mw ro o w u; «o o o 4* row to in iiHyi r* fo in w poyi A vu wp* rov* a w 0i w win o *o ~o fc- 0 kj *o -0 ♦* ro 0
oin UU 1m It Vj * r>x*w >1lotnvo ro 03 ° row u>x»VjVjuj -oaDin cooInVj x. roc V.ro k.
Oo oo oo a uiooooooo oc oo ooooooooooo hoooooooc o o vnoooooomoo ooooooc ooo
Oo OO OO O OOOOOOOO OO O a OOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOO o o oooooooooo oo ooo o o ooo
VA»x«inx3-»jx>xkC50ii-oro'^iro-t>OoXk<rui^'JVnOA“^'.-rv3cr:i/i v > J £.V»X>xt-«jr>-4*i*j'^vi'AjCT-wvvrj^j'^.in/»ra'»Minx*x«XkN*i><x*NjO-vmnv*jVMv»ic»iw^vuc> ,
0 , W(MMflOC‘-OO l O>lll/l4)WW* J w->JUMjiruU'l^Xk^OOCOV>Jwa>C*TJtoUKj£XJi»uiXiXkCT‘CnOCTCT«*^JXknAV*ir.a'.MO-C«Winw'Off k Ki^)*OH*^CD
Mm K mm •—• M MroM H MM H HN H jJ r* MM W M
mcoNjmc-oxiooo-woawiji -jwo u> o wj MCDO
x» uiujto toruco co mj i. i>>i-oyioOisjwvM«MviofrinsJV)Cavc -joco-jrv>c‘-oc? > x»x;^>oajODO'CuCoco
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
last
All ords.
314.00
318.01
100.61
101.B1
SO Leaders
104.33
105.96
Banks . . . .
164 85
165.60
107.65
109.22
Fin.
481.83
479.57
67.27
66.32
Pastoral
224.33
219.20
118.40
115.09
Transport
478.17
478 02
97.29
97.07
Retails (Merchants)
336.01
337.10
94.19
94.34
Services . . . .
43 52
43 03
Foods ...
166.32
166.86
100 57
100.74
Textiles ...
187.30
184.03
77.75
75.98
Chemicals
332.54
333.44
83.71
83 79
Electrical . . .
417.49
413.44
61.17
61.03
Paper ...
102.25
102.88
Building .
662.42
669.97
90.57
90.86
Fuel oowor .
170.45
169 96
Automollv#
739.33
729.80
78.01
76.85
Steel, Eng. .
432.68
449.82
107.17
111.77
Non-ferrous .
1099.00
1145.61
186.04
193.01
o
L
SUGAR
Week
ago
Friday
last
147.05
Week
ago
Friday
last
Brisbane . . .
148.15
115.96
117.47
Slur-
Per , Qlv Venn
Valuei cents | ago
•A'e*k
1 ago
1 FH.
|close
1966
High | Low
T urnciver
Syd. ; Meib
1 Yield %
| D'v Itarn.
Hardit. J.
1
.00
10
5
35
4
60
1 4
7 3
5
06) 4
40. 550! 3001 2
. 6
3
Healing. A.G.
50
62
25
2<
1
58.
. 11
, 16.200| 11.60C
i 16
71 35
•1
Herald. W. T
so
12
5
4
85i 4
55
4
60
5
22
4
35
100! 10.20C
, 2
.1
■ 3
7
Honker. L. J.
so
33
26
.26
36
.241 12,350
: 4,200!
15
?
Hurries
1
00
12
5
3
OB 2
15
2
.251 2
9C
2
H
; l.ooc
9.10C
5
61 9
0
HuUdtis,
50
5
8fi
91
9C
1
.0<
• 8£
5.80C
] 5,000
5
,6
1 10
8
' A.C
SO
5
9
92
30
BC
.83
77
1 7.50C
, 10.00C
! 7
•
12
?
I.C.I A.N.Z.
2
00
15
4
•to
•4
05
4
OU
4
32
3
6C
5.50C
4.30D
! 3
£
5
2
Inter. Re'.iil
50
25
i
.»?
Rfl
90
i
45
115
5.70D
100
6
6
9
0
Jones, David
50
t.
/5
i
50
i
40
i
4<;
i
.63
1
.38
16.35C
1 3.40C
A
£
3
6
Jones, Henry
1
00
10
3
72
3
40
j
50
4
10
3
40
4.300
3,100
2
9
8
?
Priori
50 |
42
19
19
.261
.IE
1.50C
14,400
lb
1
Kelvinator
SO
7
5
2
5G
!
95
i
95
2
081 1
921 J.20C
1.40C
3
£
3
7
Koitaki
50
12
3
1
Ifl
15
i
.15
1
30
1
15|
I 10
6
14
0
Lend Lease
so
5
12
1
14
i
34
1
25
1
01, 2.850
2.400
4
4
7
9
L.fe Savers
SO
B
2
60
2
50
2
-4Z
2
551 Z
24
4.60C
1.300
3
3 4
7
Lysaghl, J .
1
00
11
2
88
2
??
2
16
2
63
2
15
2.10C
2.JOC
5
1
3
5
M.L.C.
2.00
31
fas
7
30
6
ns
e
• lfr
8
40
7
66
12,200
E5C
5
<3
3
7
*3
MacRobertson
I
00
8
85
1
24
i
14
1
55
l
14
1.500
1,000
7
0
6
Marrickville
50
7
5
1
4G
1
32
i
35
1
55
3
22
7,400
2.000
5
b
b
3
Mauri Bros.
50
5
1
70
1
Bfc
i
Bfa
?
0B
3
S2
6,850
4,700
2
7
5
7
M Nick less
1
CID
12
5
3
30
2
85
2
as
3
70
?
70
1400 2.100
4
A 1 c
4
Mcllwraith, J,
30
/
5
1
65 l
lei 1
18
1
50
T
16
2,000
5.500
6
4
11
7
McPhersons
2
00
16
fj
4
12
3
bO
3
6/1
4
OH
3
40'
7.50C
•1
6
10
4
M illaquin
t
00
20
3
b0 2
55
2
65
3
1H
2
60
200: 7
6
fl
6
Miller. R. W
I
00
10
I
82
1
70
1
64
7
07
l
63
9.200; 4.300
6
1
15
7
Minster
1
00
20
6
45
3
45
3
48
6
68
3
13
2.650
3.000
6
7
1?
4
Morris, Phillip
Moulded Prod
2
00
24
5
30
b
90
*>
80
7
36
6
20
5001 150
3
5
1 7
3
30
5
99
60
65
SO
59
600
22.500
7
7
4
6
Myer
30
B
751 J
25
Z
93
2
93
3
56
2
86
)9,eoo
63 500
3
0
7
0
Myttons
50
6
1
52
1
50
1
67
1
64
1
42
700
17.700
3
.3
a
1
N.Z. Forest
1
.25
9
561 2
80
2
3B1 2
9(1
Z
95
?
CM
-
1,500
3
4
9
8
Nat. Bank
l
00
10
2
25
1
9!
2
00
?
30
1
a?
12.350
5 JC'O
5
0
5
i
Nat. Consol
50
10
2
71
2
34
?
35
7
40
2
27
7.550
8,000
4
3
8
?
Nat. Dairy
2 23
20
7
82
00
37
50
37
50
42
00 37
50
40
?
6
5
7
News
50
5
1
50
1
41
1
40
1
&Z
I
36
500
7 200
3
6
1
•1
N.Z. Ins.
l
25
U
5
3
02
2
70, 2
60
2
S2
2
60
900
6
2
fi
Olympic
50
5
99
70
fa5
SOI
65
4,950
19,700
7
1
15
?
Optical
t
00
15
4
bO
4
15
4
10
4
70
4
30
1 500
3
7
7
3
Overseas
50
3
*
5
1
18
1
10
1
10
i
16
1
08
2.400
4.200
5
8
10
?
P.G H.
50
a
1
72
1
25
1
31
3
60
1
20
3.400
6
1
10
2
Reko
50
a
1
55
2
07
2
22
2
22
1
85
19.000
7,300
3
4
5
8
Penfolds
50
6
25
1
52
1
57
1
3fc
2
03
1
50
800
4
G
5
5
Perp. Trustee
2
.00
17
3
75
3
90
3
90
5
90
3
55
700
4
6
5
Petersville
20
2
5
531
59
59
64
55
16.300
>8,400
4
£
t
2
Peters, W. A.
SO
0
25
1
SO
1
78
1
73
i
92
1
70
2.100
>
6
6
6
Picneer Cone.
SO
6
25
1
48
1
46
1
40
i
62
1
37
14.3001 4.200
4
5
E
4
Prestige
50
b
1
30
95
90
i
05
an
2.300
200
6
9
13
6
Provincial 7.
50
5
5
1
20 1
10
1
11
i
30
1
oo
l.SOOi
5
0
10
9
Pye
50
5
1
98
1
40
1
jy
i
55
1
20
2.600
2.300
3
6
12
9
Q'land Can
50
5
1
14
1
02
1
02
i
13
1
00
200
4
9
Q'land Cement.
2
00
20
7
40
7
25
/
45
7
70
7
on
2
B
5
b
Q'land ins.
1
00
12
5
3
72
4
la
4
13
4
50
4
00
4.300
3
o
7
1
Q'land Press
1
00
10
5
45
A
8.5
5
05
5
45
«1
78
1,600
3
5
6
Reeds
50
7
1
99
i
53
i
51
1
73
1
48
4
6
7
Repco
50
?
5
2
18
2
05
2
01
2
241 3
80
6,900
22,000
3
7
6
2
Rocla
50
7
2
30
3
80
1
80
2
14
1
78
bOO
3.300
3
9
6
a
Rothmans
1
00
20
3
58
2
75
2
82
3
15
2
68
1,000
2,000
7
1
13
e
S.A. Rubber
50
5
62
1
40
1
10
1_
05
1
25
i
00
1.000
1.700
5
3
13.
4
S.T.P. Hold.
50
P
25
92
95
9/
1
00
88
19,800
5.200
6
4
14
8
Schweppes
bO
5
75
1
65
1
50
1
501 1
85
i
45
2.100
1,200
3
7
5
7
Shelleys
50
7
5
2
JO
2
.50
Z
55
2
55
2
30
300
2
9
8
2
Simpson Pope
50
1
46
34
30
46
27
300
500
3
3
10
2
Sleigh, H. C.
50
5
1 fa
511
50
12
57
7.450
13.900
8
6
ii
9
Smith, Huw.
2
00
10
2
50
2
45
2
40
2
57
2
40
2.300
9-00
4
2
7
2
Softwood
1
00
10
Z
90
Z
66
2
65
3
25
?
07
A
4
14
B
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1
25
14
16
3
HO
3
60
3
op
3
*5
2
06
2,050
3
9
3
Steamships
50
fa
fab
9 7
4/
90
1
05
88
4,100
1,700
7
A
n
9
Stedman, J.
50
7
5
1
92
1
611
i
bO
1
HH
r
60
2,100
4
7
8
7
Swan B''cw,
50
3
12
2
35
2
33
2
33
2
50
?
21
2,700
15,100
2
8
3
3
I arav
50
fa
92
1
06
09
1
??
)
00
200
1,600
5
7
9
T aubmanj
50
8
i
5B
96
1
01
1
18
90
4.300
700
7
9
9
2
TV Corp.
1
00
20
2
90
2
63, 2
75
2
75
2
08
500
500
7
j
7
3
THiess
50
40
67
69
76
63
20,600
9
3
Tooheys
50
4
25
1
00
1
15
1
13
1
?)
1
10
27,550
3
a
5
a
T ooth
1
00
15
7b
4
85
5
12
5
22
6
36
4
90
15.100
1,550
3
0
4
3
Union Carb.
1
00
10
2
98
3
50
3
50
3
65
3
78
500
400
2
9
5
8
U.E. Box
63
5
04
1
32
1
38
1
35
1
47
1
38
A
i
10
3
Walker. F. J.
1
00
12
5
1
70
1
32
I
36
1
63
1
25
1,700
9
2
9
4
Waltons
50
6
5
89
1
04
1
05
1
12
85
13,600
10,700
b
0
9
5
Webster. A. G.
50
8
1
25
1
43
1
50
1
50
1
25
5
0
10
j
Will'ms, F. W.
Woolworths
1
00
10
3
98
.3
15
3
10
4
00
?
96
8,900
2
1
2
50
6
1
54
1
37! 1
37
1
44
1
30
34.375
19,500
A
4
6
0
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year Ago
Month ago
Week ago
This Wsflic
Aluminium, ton ...
£ 196
£ 19b
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wire bars, ion . .
C 498%
f. i e/n/svi
£ 556%
£ 664%
f. 6DOV2
Gold, oi . .
£ 12/11/5
C 12/11/4%'
£12/11/9/%
Lead, cash, ton
£ 103/18/9
£ 90/13/6
£ 447/e
< 92%
Silver, troy, or. .
101%d
111 Vjd.
UIW
m%d
Tin cash, ton
Wolfram, unit, c.l.t. . .
Zinc, cash, ton . .
Wheat. Australian. ;on
f. 1562
£ 1399
t 1293
£ 1<?2%
£ 11- £ 11%
L 13%- l MV*
£ 13- £ 14
£ 127/e-1 13%
£ 116%
£ 93
£ 101%
£ 47%
£ 25=/s
1 26%
£ 265/a
£ 25%
Linseed Oil. ton
£ 97%
i 02%
£ 351/2
£ 96%
Cocoa, 50 kilos
Cotton, Amrrcar, middling
108/V
181/3
197/9"
192/9
lb
23.45d.
?3.35tl.
23 60d.
23.45b.
Desiccated Coconut Ion
1 160
£ 132%
£ 131
Rubber, lb. . . . .
Sugar, ton ....
Tea, quality, lb. . . .
21 *d.
20 9-16th d.
21%d
21%d.
1 21
£ 20Va
l 19%
t 1$%
A/2 «o 6/-
4/7 to 6/9
4/6 to 6/9
4/2 to 6/.
Wool Tops. 64s. lb
107d.
(Ail figures
121d
In sterling 1
121V.
122d.
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
London
| '■financial Times"
New York Tokyo
Dow Jones |D, Jones.
*ntf=
Sees.
Gold
Inds.
1 Ra la Avge.
Jan 3. 1966
333.7
78 74
61 3
965 54
247 38 1430.13
19o6 hiQti . . . .
374
79 43
65 2
995 15
271 72 1588 73
l'Jhe low . . .
337 i
76 91
58 4
364.34
220 54 1412 98
228 50,1560 28
Month .jgo
365 2
77.09
59 3
876.11
Wcuk. ,»go
372 7
77.29
59.0
891.75
231 16 1550 06
Latest.
364.6
76.91
60.3
882 73
227 15 1537.61
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
[INDUSTRIAL! MINING |INDU3TRIAL[ MINING
I Sales | Value 1 Sales | Value
I Vol. | S | Vol. 1 5
; looo i looo i iooo | 1000
Sales ■ Value
Vol. | S
1000 1030
Sales |
Vol.
1000 I
Value
S
1000
Week before 12245.513099 61 1976 31 1330 6
Week Lo ',2304.013606 C>| 1262 0. 1039 0
2095 1 2953
lasa , 2813
391
352 ;
960
836
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend 6.07
MELBOURNE
dividend 5 43
earnings 8.65
LONDON ( F.T.)
dividend 5.34
earnings 7.56
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3 21
earnings 5.99
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
Short 4.96 4.97
Medium .... 5 13 5 13
Long 5 25 5 25


THE CHARTIST SAYS
Don't Buy These Stocks
DOWNTRENDS are still evident and these stocks should not
be purchased until there is some evidence of base patterns
and a decisive break in the downward trend.
Electrical companies could hardly be classified as growth
situations and would be basically regarded as a cyclical industry
group. AW A, EMI, Electronic Industries “B”, and International
Resistance still have to achieve downside objectives and Electrical
Equipment would be unlikely to rise above $2.55 in the short
term. Pye Industries at this point would appear to show the best
prospect of some capital appreciation providing it does not fall
below $1.20.
The individual stocks can be compared with the electrical
index which has shown an overall downward movement since the
top formation of 1960. From the technical point of view, this
industry group has quite obviously past its growth phase in terms
of capital appreciation and investors considering any purchase
of stocks in this group should bear in mind that the situation is
strictly cyclical.
AWA could he described as a waving cyclical stock with revers-
ing intermediate trends. The stock appreciated at a rate of 20
percent per annum during the 1963/4 bull phase and since the
break in trend early 1965 has followed an accelerated downtrend
which is expected to halt at approximately $l.BB. A change in
direction could quite easily be expected after a short period of
consolidation.
EMI has been unable to rise above $2.85 since the 1960 peak
and although a gentle upward trend continued for four years at
a rate of approximately 15 percent per annum, the basic trend
line was decisively broken early 1965 with heavy selling volume
and a downtrend has followed which appears likely to continue
until support is forthcoming about the $1.50 level.
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT moved in a 25 percent up-
trend for four years which could be regarded as the growth
phase in the life cycle of this stock which is usually as much
as could be expected. Since the break in trend in 1965 the price
movements have been unable to rise above $2.55 and it is unlikely
that any further growth can be expected from this stock until
this level is decisively broken which appears improbable in the
short term. The picture at the present time indicates an early
broadening top situation and a sideways movement for some
considerable time would be possible. A severe fall would be likely
once prices fall below $1.90.
ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES “B” has been in a major
downtrend from at least the beginning of 1960. The decline now
appears to be taking a steeper angle with the next downside
objective at approximately the 70c level where some consolida-
tion might be expected to take place. The stock should not be
considered for purchase until a decisive upside penetration of
the downtrend after the formation of a base pattern.
INTERNATIONAL RESISTANCE is another stock where a
downtrend has been evident for several years. From 1961 to
1963 a sideways movement prevailed with price fluctuations
around $1.50 which became a support level. This was subse-
quently broken in 1964, resulting in a continuation of the down-
ward trend. The stock has no further support levels back to
1960 and could eventually fall to a target of approximately 70c.
PYE INDUSTRIES After the break in the downtrend in
1962, this stock had an almost vertical rise in what could be
regarded as a growth phase and the price movements of 1964/5
formed a double top and the commencement of a downtrend with
an objective of $1.20 which has now been achieved. It is unlikely
that the stock will fall below this point as support from the 1960
level is evident. It is possible that a base pattern could be in the
early stages of formation and any decisive rise above $1.55 on
high volume could be the commencement of the next upward
movement. However, the situation would call for reassessment if
sales fall below $1.20.


the! Black
Dolphin
motel
Princes Highway,
Merimbula
. ’phone
Merimbula 326
For overnight
_ accommodation or a
relaxing holiday, it’s wonderful in winter, superb
in summer—Merimbula, located on the coastal
Princes Highway (between Sydney and Mel-
bourne), is famous as a year-round holiday
resort. It’s a fishing paradise, located right on
the lake with nearby surf beaches, and in
winter Merimbula is famous for its oysters and
its climate warmed by tropical currents. A
motel of distinction, the Black Dolphin has the
usual licensed restaurant, guests’ lounge, air-
conditioning, swimming pool, private jetty and
superb cuisine.
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSiTT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
Offices in all Capital Cities, or direct to
The Black Dolphin Motel, Merimbula. Phone 326
A MCMBER COMPANY OF ANSCTT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES lIMITID
•ATI .711
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Little Growth in Electricals
Only one worth buying out of six
OF the six companies which have been
reviewed in recent weeks, only one
appears to have an unbroken record
of rising profitability over the last five
years. The published earning rates are as
follows:
Year ended in 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
A.W.A. N/C 35.6 30.2 31.0 32 2
E.M.I. 28.9 37 6 33.1 29.5 41 5
Electrical Equipment 19 4 21 2 22.9 26.7 32 4
Electronic Industries 7 1 12.3 11.2 13.4
International Resist. 20.2 18 6 22.7 14.0 16 3
Pye Industries 26.6 21.8 43.8 39.1 49.9
From these figures, one could well come
to the conclusion that all these companies
had a better year in 1964/5 than they
did in 1963/4, and while the trend is
neutral (in all but one case) the earning
rates of four of the six are high in abso-
lute terms, which would suggest that the
potential for future shareholder benefits
still exists. The market (which is gener-
ally pretty dull at the time of writing)
doesn’t seem to have much enthusiasm for
these stocks as the table of prices and
yields shows:
Share prices 5 Yields %
1966 Range Current D’dend Earn.
A.W.A. 2.42-2 05 2 09 3 8 6 8
E.M.I. 2 15-1 90 2.05 3 7 9 0
Electrical Equip. 2 46-2.28 2.30 3 5 7.0
Electronic Indust. 1 04-0.90 0.90 11 1 14 9
International Res. 1 45-0.96 0.96 6 5 8 4
Pye Industries 1.55-1.20 1.30 3 8 13.8
The variation in the earnings yields
might indicate that the market is tending
to price these stocks on dividend expecta-
tions, but the fact that AWA and Pye are
roughly on the same dividend yields as
EMI and Electrical Equipment would ex-
plode such a theory. Despite those who
suggest that the past does not provide any
guide to the future, there is some strong
evidence that a steady past record of divi-
dend increases is one of the best guides to
a steady future record of such increases.
It would therefore seem more likely that
the shares are being priced on some basis
of adjustment earnings (or worse, on the
forecasts of future price movements by
astrologists).
Clearly the “notional” earning rates
which I suggested in the individual articles
do not form any basis for pricing, because
on the current prices shown in the schedule
above the various price/earnings multiples
would be:
Price/earnings
Company multiple
A.W.A. 10.5
E.M.I. 8.1
Electrical Equipment 13.6
Electronic Indus. . 5.3
International Resist. 11.6
Pye Indus. 6.2
These “notional” earning rates at-
tempted to make some adjustment for pro-
visions for bad debts (as opposed to bad
debts actually written off) and it may well
be significant that the three companies
which have given the most prominence to
their bad-debt position have also the low-
est price/earnings multiples. There can
be no doubt that investors generally are
very wary of “bad debts” today and even
a hint that these might be “excessive” is
usually enough to downgrade the market
appraisal of a stock.
There may also be some doubts arising
in investors’ minds regarding the profits
that will arise from electronics contracts
whether they are with Governmental agen-
cies or with the private sector. The results
in recent years of International Resistance
which appears to have had good contracts
with both (outside of the TV and radio
field), may be an indication of the diffi-
culties in making profits in this highly
technical field, particularly when much of
the “know-how” has to be learned from
overseas associates and perhaps paid for at
rather high rates.
Another factor which could be exercis-
ing the minds of investors is the question
of capital gearing and the degree of risk
which this produces in the pricing of equi-
ties. If the six stocks are tabulated in the
order of lowest percentage equity in the
total capital (total liabilities less current
liabilities), they would appear as follows:
Per cent "Actual” ‘‘Notional”
Company Equity P/E multiple P/E multiple
Electronic Indus. 51.1 6.7 5 3
Pye Industries 58 9 7.3 6 2
International Resist. 76 9 11.9 11 6
A.W.A. 90 6 14 7 10.5
E.M.I. 93.9 11 1 8.1
Electrical Equipment 97.6 14.3 13.6
These figures suggest that this gearing
might well be the main criteria in the cur-
rent pricing of the shares, except that EMI
is out of line in the price/earnings multi-
ples both “actual” and “notional.”
This leads to some consideration of the
various earning rates on total capital of
the companies taking earnings in this
instance to mean net profit before tax,
depreciation and interest on loans and re-
lating this figure to the total capital at the
beginning of the year.
Year ended in 1962 1963 1964 1965
A.W.A. N A 21.1 19 9 20 7
E.M.I. 32.9 27.2 25.1 31 1
Electrical Equipment 24 6 24.7 28 3 36.1
Electronic Indust. 63 7.5 81 96
International Resist. 14.5 20 5 12.1 14.8
Pye Industries 21.4 34.3 22 8 20.8
Using the 1962/3 year as a base, so
that AWA can be included, these trends
are shown in the form of an index thus:
Year ended in 1962 1963 1964 1965
A.W.A. N.A. 100 94 98
E.M.I. 121 100 92 115
Electrical Eqirpment 99 100 114 146
Electronic Indust. 84 100 108 . 128
International Resist. 71 100 59 72
Pye Industries 62 100 66 61
Clearly the choice of the base year is
hardly fair to Pye and International Re-
sistance, because by some coincidence this
was a good year for both companies and
far and away better than the preceding
and the two subsequent years. It is also
apparent that Electrical Equipment and
Electronic Industries are the only two
companies that have shown a rising trend
throughout the four years, but it must be
pointed out that, in the case of Electronic
Industries, the improvement is from a
very low base. AWA has been virtually
steady over the three years for which the
ratio can be calculated, but EMI was show-
ing a marked downward trend until the
strong recovery in 1964/5.
It would be difficult to point to any
obvious investment opportunity among
these stocks. There can be no doubt that
Electrical Equipment has by far the best
profit record and it is well priced as a
result, in comparison with the others at the
present time. However, over the past six-
teen months it has been marked down
roughly in accord with the “electrical” in-
dustry stocks as the table of price varia-
tions from the high price since the Ist
January, 1965, shows:
Percentage variation from high price
Lowest price Current price
A.W.A. 31.2 29 8
E.M.I. 24.6 18.7
Electrical Equip. 22.7 8.7
Electronic Indust. 28 0 28.0
International Resist. 40.0 40.0
Pye Industries 52.4 48.4
Electrical Equipment, then, is reasonably
attractive at current prices but could be-
come very attractive if it is ever marked
down again to below $2.00. The remain-
ing companies are no longer growth situ-
ations and in these circumstances they
should not be selling above ten times earn-
ings. This would suggest that AW A and
EMI are about correctly priced at cur-
rent levels, but one can hardly expect any
worthwhile improvement in the near
future. Pye and Electronic Industries seem
to be somewhat under-priced at the pres-
ent time, particularly if their bad-debt
problems have been overcome, but no
fortunes are likely to be made out of the
price increases over the next six months.
International Resistance seems to be rather
over-priced unless one believes that there
is still good prospects of a successful take-
over offer in the near future.


m
m
*
t
■ We*
:•
«
t *• _
■T-.
Night shift on a
25,000-mile production line
On Australia’s Railways the night shift comes with every darkness
and ends with every dawn . . . the production line, the 25,000 miles of
track along which pass, in endless variety, the outpourings of the nation’s
secondary industry.
This fast-movirig production line is the most important in Australia
because, in serving all sections of industry, it operates at lowest cost.
For 24 hours in every day, the production line of the Railways of Aus-
tralia keeps moving at a brisk pace to place an efficient, dependable and
economical transport medium at the disposal of every producer and
consumer.
fdsg
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia.


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
o>^
*hN<
GO
0/
/f
0
GO
LU
HOB
N
0
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 4%%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5%%
270-360 DAYS 5 3 A%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6 1 / 4 %
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7 1 A%
TEN YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectusand Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
P6QS
MAN ON THE LAND
Fighting for Extension Funds
THERE’S a current joke about the
farmer who telephoned the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and asked for
extension. “Yes, but which extension do
you want?” said the girl on the switch-
board. “I’ve got 150 extensions in this,
building alone.” If the girl on the switch
isn’t too sure what extension means she
is not alone. Like happiness it means dif-
ferent things to different people.
The need for improved agricultural ex-
tension is undeniable. But, like public
relations, it is an intangible, and that
makes it awfully difficult to assess.
The Federal Government has decided
to subsidise extension to the tune of $8
million a year for five years, and un-
fortunately *it has done so without first
deciding what extension is or should be.
When the increased Federal help was
first mooted we were among those who
welcomed it with enthusiasm. We imag-
ined, perhaps naively, that it would mean
an upgrading for those hard-working and
largely underpaid district research and
extension officers throughout the country
who are closely in touch with farmers on
the job; that the shortcomings of exten-
sion, as it existed, would be overcome by
the allocation of vastly increased funds.
But the cake may have turned out to be
a bit too rich and too many hands are
grabbing for a slice. The increased funds,
instead of helping to rationalise the com-
plicated overlapping and rivalries of vari-
ous Federal, State, and semi-Government
agencies, may instead be aggravating them.
No sooner had the Department of Pri-
mary Industry advertised a top extension
job in Canberra than Melbourne Uni-
versity anounced a postgraduate course in
extension for selected applicants. The
coincidence was too obvious to miss. Many
farmers also have been puzzled by the
spate of “breakthroughs” in agricultural
research in the past six months. The
inescapable conclusion is that each and
every “breakthrough” has been partly
motivated by the thought of grabbing off
a share of the Federal extension money.
• Newcastle disease: Headlines in all
newspapers proclaimed that this dire
disease was rife in Queensland, N.S.W.,
and Victoria. Borders were closed. Pun-
dits demanded the setting up of even more
elaborate research establishments. Then
it turned out that not one fowl had ever
had the disease but that some fowls had
shown positive reactions to a wide spectrum
test. The positive reaction could have
indicated susceptibility not only to New-
castle disease but half a dozen other
diseases as well.
• Blue tongue: This was the most puzzling
of all. Cattle were slaughtered, compen-
sation paid out, and in the end it was
found that there was no blue tongue. Why
was blue tongue suggested in the first
place? Why not foot and mouth, or rinder-
pest, or something else? No one has
answered these questions. Naturally, fol-
lowing the scare, there was a neat con-
elusion drawn that it proved, somehow,
that testing centres should be set up at
strategic points in Australia and even on
offshore islands.
• The shrinkproofing of wool: No one
has been able to explain satisfactorily
how this alleged Australian discovery dif-
fers from the U.S. process discovered nearly
two years earlier. There are many other
examples, but these are the notable ones.
If one looks for a common denomin-
ator in most of these blow-it-up-then-knock-
it-down situations one can find it. Each
somehow creates a new situation where
someone else comes to the remarkable
conclusion that a big, and very expen-
sive, research set-up should be created,


m
m
w*
mm
r m
m
WATER TIGHT
That’s because it ivent by Certified Mail. You receive a receipt as
proof of postage, and a signature from the person to whom your
article is addressed, as proof of personal delivery. Sending any
document or correspondence of importance by Certified Mail leaves
no room for doubt. And it only costs you 5c plus normal postage.
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
nearly always in Sydney, Melbourne, or
Canberra.
It is so intangible. Perhaps the
graduates who staff these establishments
are not at fault. Perhaps their wives
simply prefer to shop in Double Bay or
South Yarra.
What is not intangible is the view of
farmers. It can be stated, with cer-
tainty, that farmers favor regional re-
search and extension establishments in
their own or neighboring districts. They
are getting some. Three new ones are
planned in both N.S.W. and Victoria. But
the farmers want more and the other
States are well behind.
It is most unusual for a Country Party
spokesman to hop into a Department of
Agriculture. Yet this, in recent weeks,
has happened. The Victorian Country
Party leader, Mr. Moss, has taken the
Victorian Department to task for fail-
ing, he said, to appreciate the needs of
farmers. He claimed that too much
research was being directed toward avenues
which had little or no practical value.
(We are not sure that he is right, by
the way.)
Possibly Mr. Moss was reminding the
Department that the Country Party voice
largely convinced the Federal Government
that more money was needed for extension.
This being so, the Department should
take a little more notice of the Country
Party in the spending of the additional
funds.
Again some farmers, with political pull,
may be having second thoughts about the
extension allocation. It looked great two
years ago, but drought has materialised in
the interim and many farmers would
happily forgo improved extension if the
same money could be diverted to more
direct drought relief. The poor old tax-
payer (urban) who makes the heaviest
contribution naturally gets no say.
There are indications that a rethinking
is taking place but it has not yet hit the
Federal Government.
At the recent sheep school at the Univer-
sity of N.S.W. one speaker more or less
accused some of his colleagues of adjusting
research findings to satisfy already estab-
lished viewpoints. If the research findings
did not do this they were buried, he said.
It sounds a bit like TV and radio ratings.
Give them what they want to hear and
they’ll feel happier in paying for it.
The very worst part of the Federal
extension grants is that they suggest that
extension has, up till now, been very
backward in Australia. This is not so.
There are many, many examples of
remarkable achievements by farmers work-
ing in close co-operation with scientific
advisers right down to the diplomatic level.
Some of the very best practical advisers
hold no more than diplomas and as things
are shaping these men may miss out.
The other important omission of the
extension grant is that it ignores the
remarkable work being done by private
farm advisers who are sometimes graduates,
sometimes diplomates, and sometimes
qualified in a non-agricultural sense (i.e.,
accountancy). And then there is the
altogether petty rivalry between the CSIRO
and the Departments in the various States.
Something, soon, has to be done about
this.
If the object of improved extension is
increased agricultural production it must
be conceded that there is a breed of
farmer who will do things his way regard-
less of what anyone tells him. So what
do you do? Walk on to his place and
tell him to do this or that or get off?
There is unquestionably a school of thought
in Australia which favors some kind of
planned farming with production targets
and quotas. But we have not gone that
far along the road to socialism. Not yet.
Where this type of farmer is concerned
$BO million in Federal extension grants
would make no difference.
For the intelligent farmer, who wants
to be helped, the opportunities have
existed in the past and would continue to
exist without the additional funds.
The improved extension idea is still
good but the timing may be wrong
unless the whole mess of rivalries, dupli-
cation, and overlapping is ironed out.


t *
* :
k
m
* n
* } -:M
* i
* % t W
,*m W*
\ m
•HMWMjjgjgfc*- J
X
m
I.
m
*g2«Ws'
«& %• x 't
UIL „„
§ :
>
.- \
m
W&« '*
*-s >/ /* •
y t
y *
w
i ar
**
**
-
v. v-* :«'w»*
ms
*►
. , A
V I\j
*
* 5
I i
trVJ
1 I .* *»
iiSaS*'
J.
EWM*i J*#
• >'
*.?.»-«ot'
..-* % y i\* * y V
ii
■ n^... 1: j^ e y
* ’ 1
* i f
* ’*
* f ' "f' ,<
* i %
■ *■» : v i
** *
■ I
Captain Cook discovers the Sound of Music
another first from the Nine network!
The Scene: Captain Cook’s cottage in Melbourne’s beauti-
ful Fitzroy Gardens.
The Cast: Bobby Limb and leading personalities from the
GTV, TCN Sound of Music.
The Occasions: First of a new Sound of Music series on
Australia’s discovery and development —in song.
It took a network with imagination and the instinct to
know how to score when it comes to audiences ... to
conceive the idea, produce it, supply talent and slot it at
the time to deliver top ratings. The Wine network is con-
tinuously pooling resources to bring top local shows to the
viewers —top audiences to advertisers.
0
Channel
A
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
VflV
TCN-9 SALES—Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street. 61 9931.
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.
GTV-9 SALES Melbourne: 22 Bendigo Street. 42-0201.
Sydney: 54 Park Street. 61-9931.


&
fd
DEBENTURE STOCK
gbfdgfd
_l°i
2 h
NEW ISSUE
FOR 7 YEARS
Other rates and terms available —• see Prospectus for fell
details. Prospectus and application form available fromt
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C. lIP
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed o
copy of the Prospectus,
1006
UNDERWRITERS JAW POTTER & CO.
Members o f the Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
AGRISEARCH
New Grapes for S.A. Winemakers
THE Phylloxera Board of South Aus-
tralia is about ”'»?dy begin selling
four new varieties of grapes to
growers. These vines are the first to be
offered since 1894, when an Act of Par-
liament absolutely prohibited the intro-
duction of vines into the State.
Phylloxera occurs naturally east of the
Rockies in North America, where it does
little damage because the American vines
had acquired a natural resistance. But it
was taken unwittingly on vine roots to
France in 1860 and appeared mysteriously
in a Victorian vineyard at Fyansford five
years later.
Unlike American rootstocks, European
vines, from which all Australian vines
originally came, are completely susceptible,
The insect, an aphid, lives on the roots,
sucking sap and leaving wounds through
which root-rotting organisms gain access,
The various precautions taken un-
doubtedly saved South Australia from
Phylloxem and enabled wine production
to expand steadily in volume. However,
the restrictions have probably limited
the range of wines made, the areas planted
to vines, and possibly yield. But what
was more important, they limited the ser-
vice that agricultural scientists could pro-
vide. For instance, suitable resistant root-
stocks could not be selected against the
day when, despite quarantine, the insect
did get in.
When and if this happened the industry
would be in a worse plight than befell
Victoria, which was able to bring in
resistant stock and gradually re-establish
its vineyards. Likewise, the detection of
virus disease also requires that a range
of special test or indicator vines be im-
ported. And there is now mounting
evidence that viruses present a greater
threat than Phylloxera ever did. More-
over, modern techniques of inspection,
quarantine, and purification greatly lessen
the risks.
So after great deliberation grandfather’s
decree has finally been changed slightly
to allow “grape varieties for research” to
be brought into South Australia, provided
the Governor can be pei'suaded to give
his assent and provided the Department
of Agriculture conducts the actual impor-
tation. This means in effect that any
individual grower can now get what he
wants if he goes about it the right way
and is long on patience.
The Department itself has set a lead
in initiative and last year brought into
the State four varieties for rootstock
research, five for virus-indexing work, two
to possibly extend the range of table
grapes, and eight for wane improvement.
Four of this last group the Department
is now prepared to guarantee to be pest
and virus free and has passed them over
to the Phylloxera Board to arrange dis-
tribution and sale. They are:
• Pinot noir, from which the famous
wines of Burgundy are mainly made,
though the variety is unlikely to become
very popular here because it is a low-
yielder and does not develop its strong
color unless grown in a sufficiently cool
district;
• Gamay Beaujolais, another black grape
and probably a member of the Pinot
family;
• Gevbuerz Traminer, which is a white
grape with a strong muscat-like aroma
(“ Gewuerz ” is German for spice). This
variety, too, prefers a relatively cool
climate, but ripens early and yields on a
par with Rhine Riesling:
• Sylvaner, also a white grape which likes
coolness but has a very gentle aroma
that is easily lost unless special care is
taken in making the wine. It is a higher
yielder than Rhine Riesling.
. Growers who want to test any of these
new varieties can buy them at $4 a
rootling from the Board. The cost is can-
didly high to help defray the considerable
expenditure involved in introduction and
to discourage all but serious experimenters
from competing for the limited stocks. The
Department of Agriculture and the Aus-
tralian Wine Research Institute also pro-
pose to establish immediately blocks of
the new vines for testing. However, it will
be several years yet before growers and
wine-lovers will know whether all the fuss
has been worth while.
JN Agrisearch of May 28 on the Econ-
omics of Worm Control, Mr. C. Hall
was described as being of the Institute of
Medical and Veterinary Science and Dr.
A. Korthals of Henry York and Co. This
should have been the other way about.


J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North,
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
BRITISH SOLOMON ISLANDS
SURVEYOR
Licensed, surveyor, aged 25-45 years,
required. Duties include field work
and training of survey assistants. Two-
year contract. Salary range $2,762-
$5,580, plus gratuity and allowances.
Partly furnished accommodation pro-
vided at moderate rental. Apply Over-
seas Service Bureau, 124 Jolimont Rd.,
East Melbourne, Vic.
(63-5857 63-8496)
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
No. MC 54 of 1966
BETWEEN
INA FEARL DRURY, Petitioner
and
DESMOND FRANK DRURY, Respondent
TO DESMOND FRANK DRURY for-
merly of Hobart in the State of Tas-
mania. TAKE NOTICE that INA PEARL
DRURY, of 181 Davey Street, Hobart, in
Tasmania has filed a Divorce Petition
against you on the ground of separation.
And TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the Petition you must file an
Answer within 28 days of the publicat ; on
of this Notice at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania, Macquarie
Street, Hobart, from which address fur-
ther information can be obtained, other-
wise the Court may hear and determine
the proceedings in your absence. Dated
this 9th day of May, 1966. C. G. BRET-
TINGHAM-MOORE, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO BARRY JOHN SIMPSON TAKE NO-
TICE that LYNETTE IRENE SIMPSON
has filed Petition No. 614 of 1966, for
divorce on the ground of desertion and
seeks orders for custody, maintenance and
costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 27th
June. 1966. You may obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs.
John D. Norton Rickard & Symonds,
Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
the City Agents for Bruce O’Sullivan,
Solicitor of Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE!
TO FRANCIS CLARENCE IRWIN TAKE
NOTICE that PATRICIA IRWIN has filed
Petition No. 1077 of 1966, for divorce on
ground of Desertion and seeks orders for
custody, maintenance and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before 15th July, 1966. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from John D. Norton Rickard &
Symonds, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street,
the City Agents for Bruce O’Sullivan,
Solicitor of Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO SENKO WOROBEIC late of 41 Fern-
grove Road, Canley Vale. TAKE NOTICE
that HELENA WOROBEC has filed a
Petition of Divorce No. 3342 of 1965 on
the grounds of cruelty and desertion, and
is seeking Orders with respect to dis-
missal of prior petition, maintenance,
settlement of property and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an answer
on or before the fifteenth day of July,
1966 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. P. White, Solici-
tor, 55 Market Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
JOURNALISTS—AustraIian Associated
Press Sydney has vacancies for keen,
experienced journalists interested in
foreign affairs and willing to make
career at home or overseas in gather-
ing and sub-editing of world news
report. Write stating age, grading,
details of experience, languages if any,
marital status, to: Managing Editor,
Australian Associated Press, G.P.O.
Box 3888, Sydney.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 902
ACROSS
1. Obstinate one in lawn-clippings and the like used
as a moisture-retaining aid in the garden. (6)
4. Shape badly when going to war with some of
Pakistan. (8)
10. Eradicate the squeak sound of a dark resident of
9-down who takes her name from her home-town?
(9)
11. Rustic harness for oxen seen by fifty. (5)
12. Naval battle inevitable here if the gas is used in it.
(3-5)
13. Nothing to back in before ten. (3)
16. Bosses other men. (anagram) (14)
18. Young and fair confectionery
score. (5, 3,6)
22. Kind as the Italianate Khrus-
chev. (3)
23. The concern of the Adelaide
Festival ran South Australia
as an Australian film-produc-
ing organisation. (8)
26. Yours Truly liquidates one
of the Hebrides. (5)
27. Light entertainment which is
better than merely practising
one’s sport. (5, 4)
28. Drone makes fun off little
hills. (8)
29. All at the one pitch the
varsity’s on. (6)
DOWN
1. Harm a thoroughfare named
after a blind creature. (6)
2. Spanish workmen enter some
of Canada with Esmond. (10)
3. Make a noise in swinging the
cane around in porcine. (7)
5. Square prelude to the night.
(4)
6. Crazy communication from
the Riverina. (7)
7. Leave the arms of Morpheus
in a vigil with the dead. (4)
8. I run less erratically because
of tractability. (8)
9. Take her in to change a
Northen Territory settlement.
( 9 ) . .
14. Publicity on Capone leaving
Italy in generations to come.
O).
15. Writer confuses five-sided
figures. (10)
17. Shots in a muddled flabber-
gast. (8)
19. Correspond and call with a
meet cry. (5-2)
20. Listener at that time made of
baked mud. (7)
21. Tin detectable on that distant
gorge. (6)
24. It shuts up 150 before morn-
ing. (4) _
25. Berserk in the Birmingham
“Oklahoma!” (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 901


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25',
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA :
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
I | Renewal. Q New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for ....
SPECULATORS DIARY
Running out of steam
industrials overdue for a rise
THIS has been a more mundane week. Even disappointing. (Prizes, now, for
anyone who reads on.) The trouble was that the mining market seemed to run
out of steam, except for Consolidated Rutile. Directors’ confirmation that pro-
duction would begin cn schedule in July was, apparently, the spark that sent the
shares up over $1.20. On the old anticipation-is-better-than-realisation theory, I
decided that this was good enough for me and sold out for a profit of $132. As this
was made in little more than a month, I’m more than satisfied.
I did think of buying some C.R.A. when
they fell heavily at the outset of the
Broken Hill strike. But too many others
(with memories of the Mt. Isa strike)
had the same idea and the shares bounced
up again before I’d made my move. Ampol
Exploration was similarly tempting when
it fell down to $1.20. But the papers
talked this one down so hard I thought
it best left alone.
Instead I turned to the poor old in-
dustrial market, which, as I said last
week, looks overdue for a rise. Prices are
definitely low and yields correspondingly
high. Take McDowells and the Hotel
Metropole, for example. Both rock-solid
old shows, very strong on assets and very
light on borrowings. Yet they each yield
over 8 percent.
What retailer other than McDowells
yields anything like 8 percent? (quite a
few of them, I realise, yield nothing at
all!). But McDowells should be among
the last to join the no-yield club. Its
strong point is that 78 percent of its
sales are made for cash. (I couldn’t believe
my eyes the other morning when I read
that some retail nabob was deploring the
fall in credit sales this on the very
day that Marcus Clark was in full cry
about credit sales!)
But back to McDowells. Apart from
being essentially a cash business, its four
Sydney stores are also well located. The
city store in King Street would be one
of the closest large stores to the big office
population between Martin Place and the
Quay. McDowells has moved into the
suburbs as well, but in moderation. Its
three suburban stores are all in the centre
of growing population areas Hornsby,
Caringbah, and Deewhy.
Profit record was a bit shaky for a
year or two and the cover for the 12%
percent dividend (paid for nine years)
became rather fine. Last year, however,
profits recovered strongly again. Pre-tax
profit rose 33 percent, although the net
figure was up only half this amount (the
rest going in tax).
In view of all this the market seems
to be treating McDowells very harshly by
pricing its 50 cent shares at only 75 cents,
or not much more than half their asset
value. So I bought 400, even though
McDowells can hardly be considered to be
a trader’s stock.
Another share that the market seems
to have taken a “set” against is O’Don-
nell Griffin. For the past couple of years
these shares have been steadily weaving
their way down in price. It’s not so
long ago that they were bringing $2 or
more. Now they’re down to $1.20 and
yielding 6 percent.
What has O’Donnell Griffin done to
deserve this? Nothing, it seems. Profits
have continued to rise steadily and have
averaged 30 percent to capital for the
past few years. This has given a double
cover for the 15 percent dividend, paid
since 1958. Certainly nothing wrong with
that.
Recently it has taken full control of
two of its interstate electrical engineering
operations which had previously been only
half-owned. One of these is in Victoria
and the other in the magical State of
Western Australia. As the company is an
old hand with electrical installations for
mining companies, it should suffer no
shortage of work in the West.
O’Donnell Griffin’s only crime seems to
be that in the Sydney and Brisbane areas
it engages in the maintenance and rental
of television sets. Television is, of course,
a dirty word to many people. But in
actual practice television rental and main-
tenance as distinct from retailing is
becoming a very good business here, just
as it is in the U.K.
So I went against the market trend
and bought 200.
This week I also added to my holding
of A. G. Campbell when they came down
to $2.73. As I mentioned a few weeks ago,
A. G. Campbell’s earning rate has risen
each year since listing five years ago and
last year was just on 40 percent. Yet divi-
dend has remained steady at percent.
With another profit rise likely this year,
something surely must give or be
given.
These purchases could not be financed
by Consolidated Rutile alone so some-
thing else had to go. The nod went to
Western Titanium contribs., which had
passed, largely unmoved, through the
annual report and meeting.
BOUGHT
400 McDowells, 75c, $307
200 O’Donnell Griffin, $1.23, $251
100 A. G. Campbell, $2.73, $278
SOLD
500 Consolidated Rutile, $1.20, $5BB
400 Western Tit. ctg., $1.04, $4OB
This left me owing $B6 and holding
these shares:
Cost
No. of Name of Date Per 'Price
Shares Company Bought Share 1/6/66
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 51.10 51.00
•200 VAM 28/9/65 0.50 0.50
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.73
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.38
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.06
200 Fowlers Vacola 13/3/66 0.45 0.46
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.19
100 Tyree 30/3/66 1.62 1.70
400 Nuttall 5/4/66 0.70 0.70
400 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 1.98 1.95
50 Kathleen rights
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 2.73
400 Steel Mills 2/5/66 0.68 0.70
300 Hanimex 4/5/66 1.42 1.45
500 Haulage 11/5/66 0.54 0.58
500 Woodside 13/5/66 0.25 0.40
200 Sydney Mutual 17/5/66 3 45 3.40
200 F. W. Williams 24/5/66 ' 3.05 3.02
400 McDowells 31/5/66 0.75 0.75
200 O'Donnell Griffin 31/5/66 1.23 1.23


L
1
— l — l
*— MW —«
;iiT
\U
mm
■ Hz
□ DO
aa
m
<3>
IW
~
© a
S
0 &
on their
second visit
to Sydney
most people
stay at
Chevron
■ 3
fj
SSgSSSTj
(mump"*
piiltUij]
HW
UH
<*>
Hf
D
E 3
those who
miss it the
first time
are sorry...
those who
miss it the
second
are few
Why? It’s Australia’s most complete hotel
• Chevron is ideally situated: the only hotel in the
“life” of Sydney, with sweeping views of the harbour
from every room • All rooms and suites 24-hour
service, soundproof, air-conditioned with ultra-modern
conveniences including bathroom, remote-control TV,
radio, background music—even choice of soft or hard
beds..#. Variety of restaurants and bars • Recognised
best dining facilities in Australia • Finest wine and
beverage cellar in Australia (from vintage local and
imported wines to 25 types of beer) • Topline inter-
national entertainers • Masseurs, beauty salon, travel
agencies and bank on premises • Avis Rent A Car
at door • Ample parking • plus many more features—
yet at rates comparable with standard hotels.
Macleay Street, Potts Point, Sydney. Phone 35-0433
«<«
Chevron
.. .and the most complete car
rental service
Avis has the widest range
of latest model cars, prop-
erly insured—and there's
no hidden charges. Rent
it here and leave it at
any of 130 Avis depots
around Australia.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
R ? R PROMPT BOOKINGS ADELAIDE: Hotel Australia, 6-8581 (Telex 82174); MELBOURNE:
51-1281; BRISBANE: Hotel Carlton, 2-2941; SYDNEY: Chevron, 35-0433 (Telex AA20489).
Chevron,


MILDARA
The Sherry of Australia
rnmmmmmmmmm
jf-
\
iJL
* « ,
VK
vx
li
mMsmgm
WPS
Hl*
I
/
/ • «#
hildara
|gfcfe --•■■> <-
Bis Vista
Medium drv
SHERRY
Mil DARA
Sis Vista
DRV SUf kKA
y
■
m
im
m
mm
Of all the products of Australian vines, none has achieved greater fame than Mildara Sherry. The grapes used are
Palomino, Pedro and Doradillo. Mildara Sherry like many others owes its distinctive taste and bouquet to a secondary
culture of flor yeast. After the flor process, the wines mature in oak casks for many years and are blended in a range of
classic styles to suit different tastes. MILDARA SUPREME DRY SHERRY, the true, pale, dry, delicate style of Spanish Fino,
was first laid down in 1936 and the quality and original unique style have been maintained by the technical staff throughout
the years. It is the finest wine of its type produced in Australia. MILDARA GEORGE DRY SHERRY is on the same quality
as Supreme but of greater age and completely dry. This pale flor-style sherry is free of dextrose and levulose, so interests
people on a non-sugar diet. MILDARA CHESTNUT TEAL, is for those who prefer a delicious full-bodied wine; here is a flor
sherry of the Oloroso style, mellow and fruity. Rio VISTA FLOR DRY SHERRY, is a flor Amontillado style but light; a sherry
with a pleasing blend of flavour and a palate most attractive to the knowledgeable sherry drinker. Rio VISTA MEDIUM
SHERRY, combines the “flor” character of Rio Vista Dry Sherry with the softness of Rio Vista Cream for those who like
their sherry soft, but not too sweet. Rio VISTA CREAM SHERRY is a true flor sherry with a pleasing sweetness and mellow
finish, with emphasis on the subtle, smooth flavour of the grape.
MILDARA - it makes a host of difference
MS .60.FPC
