

The Bulletin
AUGUST 6, 1966
L-.. mH ? %lP« « *., v WBm&x &s%*s> ' , r^%f


'
s'Sdjdmcf s ( dinsvd)(f di[j • * • pjpS s c pqov(J di/j r
fkl
*
■BSK'': :


V wm *
ONE OF A SERIES
Shiraz and Cabernet Sauvignon are the main grapes used
for making Claret and Burgundy. At Yalumba Cellars
these grapes are gently crushed through a special roller
mill to avoid stalkiness and the “must” is fermented in
contact with the red skins. Fermentation is allowed to
proceed at higher temperatures than with white wines in
order that the natural pigment of the skins will impart
more colour to the wines and add body and bouquet.
Tannin and other extracts absorbed from the skins during
fermentation make Clarets and Burgundies more robust
than the paler Rose’s or white table wines.
YALUMBA CELLARMASTER SUGGESTS
YALUMBA
u« i t
ff x
YALUMBA GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
This renowned red table wine is
blended from two varieties of grapes
Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz
(hermitage). Cabernet Sauvignon, a
light-cropping variety, gives a wine a
full bouquet and a soft tannin, while
the wine from Shiraz grapes imparts
a soft, round, full flavour. All grapes
used are grown in the Barossa and
McLaren Vale districts, where climate,
rainfall and soil quality are ideal.
Labelled with the vintage year.
YALUMBA GOLDEN RIDGE
This especially selected wine is made
from fully ripe Rhine Riesling Grapes.
These are picked late from high vine-
yards in the Eden Valley-Springton
area where the altitude permits the
acid to remain high even as the level
of grape sugar increases. Fermented
in temperature controlled pressure
tanks to retain the characteristic sweet-
ness and delicate bouquet. Serve cold.
11.
falumba
TABLE WINES
Famous since 1849
Vintaged by S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, S.A.
55922
LETTERS
The Unruly Bishops
Sir,
Your article on “The Unruly Bis-
hops’' (8., July 23) claims that the
major obstacle to State Aid in N.S.W.
is the failure of the Catholic Bishops
to agree* upon the form of aid desir-
able. Bishop Muldoon, when asked if
this was a fact, stoutly denied it and
stated that Cardinal Gilroy’s well-
known “5 point plan” was put on be-
half of all the Bishops and Catholic
people of N.S.W. and that the Cardinal
is the official spokesman for the Bis-
hops of N.S.W.
Bishop Muldoon states that the
Cardinal would refer any proposal to
a full meeting of the Bishops of this
Province as the operators of the
Catholic Schools of N.S.W.
He also claims that “a Bishop” acting
by mandate of all the Bishops of N.S.W.
sought an interview with Mr. Cutler,
which was not granted.
If all this is true, then Bishop Mul-
doon’s “subsequent railings” would
have real force.
Again, it is unfair to compare deal-
ings with the State and Federal Govern-
ments. The ACT lies in one diocese
and, therefore, proposals would be put
to the operators of schools for that
diocese—in the Catholic case, Arch-
bishop O’Brien.
Of course, the State Government
would find it easier if it were dealing
with a body representing all indepen-
dent schools in N.S.W. seeking aid.
Such a body does not exist.
No matter what the Catholic laity
is distressed about, their votes control
who governs this State. This was
brought home to Mr. Renshaw' in the
last election when he found that indi-
vidual Bishops control only one vote,
their own. The Catholic laity has
a voice in the N.S.W. Association for
Educational Freedom, which has been
agitating for five years on the State
Aid question.
Governments must deal with the
operators of schools on specific pro-
posals, but must bear in mind the voters
who are “paying twice” and cannot
bear the increasing burden for ever.
BRIAN O’NEILL
Bomaderry (N.S.W.)
CONTENTS
Indonesia Comes Back 20
The Labor Conference 14
Law and Death in Vietnam .... 24
One More Week 30
Batman 32
The Alice 33
Cellarmaster 35
Short Story 38
Books 44
Business and Finance 48
Man on Land 67


mi i
m
¥
LOS
ANGELES
HAWAII
mntwimm
AUCKLAND
Now Every Wednesday
and Friday at 3 p.m. from
Sydney. You put down at
Auckland then fly non-stop to
Hawaii (breakfast-time
arrival), and straight on to L.A.
Excellent connections at
Los Angeles for U.S. destinations
or for London and Europe. It’s
the easy way across the Pacific!
Delightful way, too, because
you enjoy Five Star Jetline
service on DC-8 Five Star jets.
Quiet flying, gourmet meals and
a flight staff who’ll make you
feel like a V.I.P. again. Check
your Travel Agent or
Air New Zealand
Sydney, 28-2786; Melbourne,
63-2554; Brisbane, 31-2548;
Adelaide, 51-0331; Canberra,
4-7147 for bookings.
mm mm
The Five Star Jetline ★ ★★★★
in association with Qantas and BOAC. General Sales Agents in Australia: Qantas


SUCARYL NEEDED HERE
When waistlines expand,
chances are Sucaryl no-calorie
sweeteners can help. In tea
or coffee alone, Sucaryl saves
at least 30 calories per cup
(add up how many you could save!)
And there's no saccharin taste.
To cut down calories,
sweeten with . . .
No-Calorie
Sucaryl
BRAND
\ /
\
X
Natural-Tasting No-Calorie Sweeteners, from your chemist.
\
LOOK
THE ARD 52-
CROSSBAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted —no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
features: Any extension can be nominated as "operator”
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other • Outside calls dialled direct by
extension • Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
Mk
tetiiA
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAO, FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 219331
Communist Allies
Sir,
With reference to the correspondence
on the letter from 60 writers against
conscription against Vietnam, it may
be necessary in some situations for
democrats to ally themselves with
Communists. One such situation arose
in 1941. But for Australian liberals
in 1966 to join with Australian Com-
munists in protesting against overseas
conscription is to form an alliance that
will not aid the cause they seek to
forward and will give aid and com-
fort to the Australian Communist Party
—a defender of totalitarian regimes and
values.
D. M. ARMSTRONG
University of Sydney (N.S.W.)
BBC Censorship
Sir,
In THE BULLETIN of May 21,
Alec Prater mentioned the BBC’s
projected program “Matador” and
concluded: “The prospect of seeing
blood on the sand has aroused such
fierce public opposition that the BBC
has postponed the screening inde-
finitely.”
To mark the 30th anniversary of
the outbreak of the Spanish civil war,
the BBC is presenting two special 60-
minute documentaries. The first is
“Spanish Turmoil” (Thursday, July
28), in which viewers see something
of the historical evolution of Spain
over the past few decades.
The second is “Matador,” in which
they see a facet of the Spanish charac-
ter as exemplified in the person of
El Cordobes, who was once a peasant
boy and is now a millionaire. The
film does not whitewash bullfighting.
It shows as much of the cruelty as is
necessary for the sake of accuracy.
J. R. T. HOPPER
Overseas Publicity Officer, BBC
London (England)
Nights at the P. &C.
Sir,
“The Teachers’ Dilemma,” by Brian
Buckley (8., June 25), presents a
timely analysis of some major weak-
nesses in our State school systems to-
day. However, I feel that the short,
humorous sketch which follows, “A
Night at the P. & C.” by “1.D.,”
should not be permitted to stand with-
out some comment. The novel “Hope-
ton High” (A. & R., 1963), by Brian
James —penname of my father, John
Tierney deals satirically with the
acquisition of a public address system
for a large boys’ school by its gadget-
obsessed P. & C. It opens with the
P. & C.’s meeting at which the de-
cision is made to obtain the public
address system. The parallels between
the book and THE BULLETIN sketch
do appear rather more than coinciden-
tal, and I regret that no acknowledge-
ment or reference was made to
“Hopeton High.”
Your correspondent, W. H. Black-
more, on July 16, suggests a fourth
myth to be added to Brian Buckley’s
three. For a telling expose of this
myth, I would draw your attention to
Brian James’ serious, earlier novel “The
Advancement of Spencer Button.”
JEAN TIERNEY
Kew (Vic.)


The Record Society Provides
THE FINEST RECORDS
IN THE WORLD
No record organization in the world chooses its
releases from such an outstanding body of
labels as does Record Society in Australia.
Members are offered exclusive recordings from
Erato of Paris, L’Oiseau Lyre, Harmonia-Mundi,
Columbia, Decca, Electrola,
Counterpoint and others . . . the finest records
in the world today.
RECORD SOCIETY BRINGS YOU
RECORDS UNOBTAINABLE ELSEWHERE
The fact that Record Society releases are $1.50 cheaper
(at $4.25) than the price you would normally pay is
important, but incidental. The real point is that many
Record Society recordings are so-called “uncommer-
cial” works that otherwise would not be released in
Australia at all. Or they are records of significant in-
terest, exploring specific aspects of the baroque and
pre-classical eras. Or works by modern and contem-
porary composers. The Record Society is able to re-
lease such material and make a success of it in the face
of all tradition because there is in Australia a suffi-
ciently large body of discriminating music-lovers which
the Society has sought out —or vice versa and
which has supported its aims since its inception.
Until this year, membership of the Society has been
restricted and is still strictly controlled. But it now
has access to computer servicing, and membership can
be expanded if required. If you are interested in receiv-
ing further details, simply complete and send the coupon
below. It places you under no obligation nor does it
guarantee you membership. But it’s a useful start!
SUPERB PRESENTATION
The presentation of its de luxe editions is the finest in Australia
amongst the finest in the world. The standard of its releases
both technical and musical —is outstandingly the finest in this
country. The rewards it offers are limitless as an examination
of its current programme demonstrates. And its standing in the
community is extraordinarily high. Here is what newspaper
critics think of it:
“Since its establishment in 1960, The Record Society has con-
centrated with conspicuous success on providing music for the
keenly, as distinct from the casually, interested listener.”
(John Sinclair Melbourne Herald.)
". . . the other volumes of this set (of lieder) would in themselves
make membership of The Record Society the sine qua non of a
serious collector.” (Kenneth Robins—The Australian.)
“The Record Society which has established an Australian reputa-
tion second to none for its reproductions of the world’s best
music wins new laurels . . .” (Bruce Kneale Post.)
“The Record Society, whose policy is to explore fruitfully the
byways of music, has new treasures for us in the latest of its
albums to be released here.” (Stradivarius Sydney Telegraph.)
“For those to whom music is more than a pleasant diversion,
The Record Society, of all the record clubs, provides the most
consistently high standard fare. A large percentage of its cata-
logue is unavailable from any other local source ... It would he
wrong to regard The Record Society as catering for the esoteric-
in music or the precious in listeners, since its catalogue seems to
be based on one criterion, that of artistic excellence.”
(Kenneth Robins—The Australian.)
JULY/AUGUST/SEPTEMBER RECORDS INCLUDE
MUSIC IN CASTLES AND CATHEDRALS
(Royal Hunts at Chantilly)
Soloists and Jean-Francois Paillard Orchestra
ALBENIZ: IBERIA (Complete Recording Books 1-4)
Alicia de Larrocha
ESTAMPIES, BASSES DANSES, PAVANES .. .
Lionel Rogg and Zurich “Ricercare” Ensemble of ancient
instruments
MUSIC IN OLD TOWNS AND RESIDENCES (Eteenstadt)
Soloists and Berlin Philharmonic conducted by Karl Forster.
BRAHMS: STRING SEXTET: Allegro from F.A.E. Sonata
Menuhin Sextet
TIPPETT: PIANO CONCERTO; PIANO SONATA NO. 2
John Ogdon and Philharmonia conducted by Colin Davis.
18th CENTURY NEAPOLITAN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
(Music by Cimarosa, A. Scarlatti, D. Scarlatti, Vinci. Porpora,
Durante, Pergolesi.)
J. S. BACH: THE WELL-TEMPERED CLAVIER (1)
(3-record set in box; second set to be issued December
Malcolm Hamilton, Harpsichord.)
TO: THE RECORD SOCIETY
299 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, Vic.;
365 Camberwell Road, Hartwell, Vic.;
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.;
Newspaper House, 93 Queen Street, Brisbane, Qld.:
60 Pulteney Street, Adelaide, S.A.;
Barnett’s Buildings, Council Avenue, Perth, W.A.
Please send me full details of The Record Society. I understand that this
preliminary enquiry does not in itself constitute application for membership.*
NAME
ADDRESS
8.6.8
of The Record Society is strictly controlled, and the Society reserves the right to close its membership lists at any time without notice.


RBAB4OC
rnt.
50
AX
NO FIXED TERM
NO FIXED TERM means your investment plus dividend
is readily available for withdrawal. Your dividend is
6% p.a. net (current rate), paid twice yearly. There
are NO deductions.
Assets exceed $2l million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office
Please send free comprehensive literature to .. .
NAME
ADDRESS
88
"Freedom and Whisky gang
thegither!"
(Robert Burns)
Feel free to insist, at all times, upon
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Crisis at N.W. Cape
Sir,
As a long-term shareholder in Con-
crete Industries (Monier) Limited and
avid “BULLY” fan from way back, I
was delighted to read your expose (8.,
June 11) of the “Crisis at North West
Cape.”
In my position it seemed quite
natural that our premier national maga-
zine would be the first to go to bat for
this all-Australian company.
At the same time it is difficult to
understand the approach of your con-
temporaries who, since the withdrawal
of Paul Hardeman from the contract,
have constantly maligned the Monier
board for not seeking political inter-
vention at that time and criticised them
for their original participation in the
project.
Failure by the company to come to
the aid of the U.S. Navy in May of
last year would surely have placed
completion of this highly important
defence project in jeopardy and at the
same time further delayed payment to
West Australian suppliers.
Why then this “head in the sand”
attitude of politicians and financial
editors at a time when they should be
lauding the national spirit of the com-
pany and promoting their case to the
U.S. Government?
And none can deny that Monier’s
efforts at the Cape over the past 12
months along with their outstanding
success on the record-breaking Jinda-
byne tunnel project fully justifies the
board’s faith in the ability of their
engineers to engage in projects of this
nature.
KENNETH A. FOSTER
Seacliff (N.S.W.)
On Price Levels
Sir,
One thing has emerged from the
speculation on possible devaluation by
Britain—the futility of having our dol-
lar tied to sterling. This would be
possible to justify only if the majority
of our trade was with Britain.
If we must have fixed exchange rates,
why not have rates determined by our
Government in consultation with our
major trading partners.
A difference in price levels between
trading countries has a disastrous effect
on economic stability and volume of
trade. The maximum trade between
countries can only be expected when
their price levels are the same.
Whatever the price level in a coun-
try, there are rates of exchange that
could overnight bring the price levels
of every other country in the world in
line.
A completely free international
currency market would give such ex-
change rates.
J. F. GORDON
Armidale (N.S.W.)


i
A
k
■
■
100
oils
ASPIRIN
■
feiil!
1
Glass bottles? Guess again.
If you make any bottled product, the time
has come to look hard at the advantages
of packing it in'something new. Geon rigid
PVC —polyvinyl chloride.
A Geon bottle weighs 80 per cent less,
doesn’t shatter, can be moulded in prac-
tically any size or shape appropriate to its
name or use, comes as transparent as you-
know-what or coloured. Geon also prevents
the oxygen transfer and deterioration per-
mitted by some plastics, it’s proof against
most chemicals which attack other plastics.
More important, a Geon bottle doesn’t have
to be returned.
Rigid Geon vinyl could be the answer to
many of your problems. Wouldn’t it be in-
teresting to find out? Call or write to-
day to B.F. Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty.
Ltd., Department D. (Box P.O. 2538),
G.P.0., Melbourne.
A job for vinyl
is a job for Gcon
B.E Goodrich
Polyvinyl chloride resins for industry. B.F. Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
MS 378


He has an electronic calculator
with a visible memory.
See the TV screen?
That’s where all his entries and
answers appear. They’re on a
restful, blue-green field. Four reg-
isters can be seen.
A fifth, unseen register can be
used for storing constant factors.
In fact, figures in all registers
are in memory. He can recall any
of them back to the working reg-
ister for further calculation. This
saves him an amazing amount of
time. And also eliminates any
chance of making an incorrect
re-entry.
He can work complex prob-
lems and never take his fingers
off the keyboard, except to write
the final answer.
This is the incomparably fast,
new 130 Electronic Calculator by
Friden.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
The 130 Electronic Calculator by Friden
Friden Pty. ltd.
636 ST. KILDA ROAD, MELBOURNE. 51 6905
Branches:
SYDNEY 29 8731 ADELAIDE 23 5998
CANBERRA 4 6162 PERTH 23 3224
BRISBANE 54 520 HOBART 34 2673 4 3san
Hawke Replies
Sir,
I would like Mr. J. C. Horsfall to
say why he reported (8., July 16): “In
any case, it is probable that any bene-
fit the Unions gained from their inter-
rogation (i.e., of the Vernon Committee
witnesses) was undone by Mr. Robin-
son’s late citing of an article from
Dr. Hall, published by the ‘Financial
Review,’ which debunked the main
assumption Hawke was working on.”
Mr. Robinson did not, although it
was available to him, cite or make any
mention whatsoever of the article; and
the employers did not share the view
that the said article “debunked the
main assumption that Hawke was work-
ing on”—in this assessment, at least,
they were correct.
R. J. HAWKE
Research Officer, ACTU
Carlton (Vic.)
Nehru Award
Sir,
I am pleased to inform you that as
a tribute to the memory of Javvaharlal
Nehru and his dedication to the cause
of world peace and international
understanding, the Government of
India has instituted a “Jawaharlal
Nehru Award” to be given annually
for outstanding contribution to the
promotion of international under-
standing, goodwill, and friendship
among peoples of the world. The
award will come into effect from this
year.
The award is open to all persons,
regardless of nationality, race, creed,
or sex, but an association, institution,
or organisation shall not be eligible.
The award, which will be given each
year, shall carry an amount of Aus-
tralian $11,900 and a citation.
This will be administered by the
Indian Council for Cultural Relations,
which is an ancillary organisation
under the Ministery of Education,
Government of India, New Delhi.
Necessary details regarding the award
are obtainable at the Information Ser-
vice of India, Sydney.
J. MOULIK
First Secretary (Information),
High Commission of India
Sydney (N.S.W.)
The Republican Wattle
Sir,
“Republicanism is good for a laugh.’’
Perhaps Noel McLachlan (8., July 23)
will die laughing, though I doubt
whether his children will.
Mr. McLachlan’s latest correspon-
dence expresses the same uncompre-
hending opinion as before. His subjec-
tive response stems from the lack of
an attempt to see the issue through the
other’s eyes, which is surely a failure
in any review. To suggest that the aim
of Geoffrey Dutton’s republican views
is the mere abolition of the “pathetic


WATER TIGHT
. . . proof of postage, proof of delivery will make it safe and sure.
That's because it went by Certified Mail. You receive a receipt as
proof of postage, and a signature from the person to whom your
article is addressed, as proof of personal delivery. Sending any
document or correspondence of importance by Certifed Mail leaves
no room for doubt. And it only costs you 5c plus normal postage.
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
snobberies” associated with the mon-
archy is a gross misrepresentation. He
should read again the preface by Dut-
ton in “Australia and the Monarchy.”
The question that must be answered is,
why should a non-national figurehead
be our Head of State? It is not a
criticism of monarchy “per se,” but of
its present suzerainty over Australia.
The emotive, almost dirty, meaning
of “republic” that some Australians
possess is unfortunate, and may w r ell
hinder Dutton’s cause, which I fully
endorse. The affinity of its proper mean-
ing a State in which the supremacy
of the people is formally acknowledged
with that of our definition of
democracy is important, for it may well
contain the seeds of the future flowering
of the Republican wattle.
CHRIS CONNOR
Ivanhoe (Vic.)
One Bale Lots
Sir,
Your “Man-on-the-Land” (8., July
23) is not even on the ground when
he thinks that “big graziers tend to re-
gard one-bale lots and perhaps the men
who provide them as nuisances.”
I have never met that attitude in 40
years among woolgrowers.
Everyone has one-bale lots whatever
the size of the clip, and no one on the
producer side worries about them.
The complaints are from buyers,
who claim, correctly, that it takes as
long to value one bale as it does to
value a 20-bale lot, and they have only
so much time to get through the cata-
logue.
Obviously 1000 single bales require a
lot more handling and time than 200
five-bale lots. Brokers agree.
That bulk classing is not the answer
has been proved by men who have com-
pared their net returns from both
methods.
H. O. LOVE
Gundagai (N.S.W.)
PROTESTANT STATE
SCHOOL SYSTEM
ffitfeurLLetia
86 Years Ago: August 7, 1880.
ir pHAT his Public Instruction Act
should constitute the central sub-
ject of Sir Henry Parkes’ self-
gratulations is not surprising. We
know that it is a popular Act with
the majority of the electors, which
must be all-sufficient in the eyes of a
politician who declares that the great
art in statesmanship is to swing with
the tide. But while he rejoices in the
success of his policy, he should not,
even in moments of post-prandial
ecstasy, misrepresent it, when he de-
clares that he has never advocated any
difference being made in the treat-
ment of the free citizens of this free
country and goes out of his way to
proclaim that such equality is the
right even of those “who discard
Christianity altogether,” he must
know that he is not fairly presenting
his own educational system. If he were
speaking of the national secular educa-
tion adopted in colonies like Victoria
and New Zealand, he would be justi-
fied in asserting that Christians and
non-Christians were treated alike,
nothing repellent to either being
taught. With his notions of the wor-
ship of expediency in statesmanship he
might have been unable to accomplish
anything else. But if his system be a
needful one it will surely bear the
truth being spoken of it. Why should
he needlessly insult those opposed to
him when he knows that he is com-
pelling them to pay to support an
educational system in which dogmas
relative to the deity of Jesus and His
death as an atoning sacrifice form a
part of and have prominent place in
the school books provided by the
State ? While not committing ourselves
to an advocacy of the religious views
held by freethinkers, we are anxious
that the Premier should not play fast
and loose with secularism and lay
claim to a breadth of liberality to
which he is not entitled. Even when
purring, Sir Henry, purr truthfully.


es
I
✓
20
FILTER
k
1592
1672
HIGH CHOICE TOBACCOS
KING SIZE
j£M
ALL OVER
THE WORLD
...SO MUCH MORE
TO ENJOY
Wherever you go, whatever you do,
wherever life is fresh, vital, elegant,
you meet Peter Stuyvesant, the
international king-size cigarette.
Rich choice tobaccos, miracle filter.
Light up a Stuyvesant, you’ll be so
glad you did.


9961 ‘JJWMfV J34M§M
■
■
'' \
MM
1 H
3
«
In the forefront of the pest control
and extermination service of
W. A. Flick & Co. is the mighty
Cessna 172.
Part of Flick’s vast sales territory is
the remote north west of Western
Australia. Their clients station
homesteads, government buildings,
mining companies are scattered
over hundreds of thousands of square
miles.
W. A. Flick & Co. realised that the
only way they could give the right
kind of service to these clients was
by aircraft.
Naturally, they chose Cessna.
Today, one man operating a Cessna
172, can cover in days an area that
would take weeks by car. And
do it far more economically too. (For
instance they get about 22 miles to
the gallon with their Cessna.
Air miles, that is; no corners!)
The result. . . their clients get better,
faster, more frequent service . . .
W. A. Flick & Co. get more business
and enhanced reputation for service.
W. A. Flick & Co. is just one of
the many progressive Australian
companies that have proved
conclusively that operating a Cessna
is sound economic common-sense.
PERHAPS YOU NEED CESSNA
IN YOUR BUSINESS?
It costs you nothing to find out.
Your nearest Cessna dealer will
gladly prepare an evaluation for you.
c
essna
These are your Cessna dealers:
G. W. CAMPBELL AIRCRAFT SALES PTY. LTD., Cessnock and Mudgee • MASLING AVIATION PTY. LIMITED, Coota-
mundra, Bourke, Wagga and Coonamble • REX AVIATION SALES (N.S.W.) PTY. LIMITED, Bankstown • BARRIER AIR
TAXI SERVICE PTY. LIMITED, Broken Hill • SCHUTT AIRCRAFT PTY. LIMITED, Melbourne • SCHUTT AIRCRAFT
(GEELONG) PTY. LIMITED, Grovedale • REX AVIATION (QLD.) PTY. LIMITED, Brisbane and Charleville • GOSS AIR
TAXIS PTY. LIMITED, Cunnamulla • SIMPSON AVIATION PTY. LIMITED, Perth • ROSS AVIATION FACILITIES, Adelaide
• AIR OASIS PTY. LIMITED, Darwin • TASMANIAN AIRCRAFT SALES & SERVICE PTY. LTD., Devonport * SOUTH-
BANK PTY. LIMITED, Wollongong • PENTECOST AVIATION, Noumea.
RB5


Face of the Week
Australia joined the U.S.A. in dis-
associating itself from Premier Ky’s
demand for invasion of North Viet-
nam. Australian exporters rejected
the 7.2 percent freights increase over-
seas shippers asked for last week.
The Bank Officers’ Association re-
ported negotiated and acceptable
salary rises for 35,000 officers. The
Treasury said the $BO million cash
loan had been oversubscribed by $8
ynillion. Bitter weather continued
in southern and south-eastern Aus-
tralia, with widespread rain but not
enough for wheat areas. The ABC
opened a news office in New Delhi.
More than 1100 had applied for
some 50 Churchill Fellowships.
★
The Australians in Vietnam lost
3 dead and had 16 injured in current
operations. Melbourne decided to
apply for the 1974 Commonwealth
Games. Prices of balls, clubs, and
rackets rose for golfers and tennis
players. Jack Brabham won the
Dutch Grand Prix. Dr. Cairns
arrived in Bangkok. Mr. J. D.
Killen was selected as Liberal can-
didate for Moreton, despite a local
DLP threat to give preferences to
the ALP if he were. Qantas naviga-
tors held a 24-hour strike for higher
pay. The APPU wool committee
asked the Federal Government to
lift the ban on Merino sheep exports.
A 100 percent clearance was re-
ported at the Melbourne tobacco
sales.
★
In Sydney, a writ claiming
$200,000 damages was taken out
against various drug companies on
behalf of a 4-year-old thalidomide
child. In Rabaul, ten Japanese ex-
servicemen arrived on a war graves
pilgrimage. In W.A., a $lO,OOO
smash-and-grab robbery was the sixth
on jewellers’ shops since March for
a total of $27,000. In Melbourne,
th e United Republican Party
changed its name to the United In-
dependent Party. Victorian police
booked 2367 motorists during a
weekend traffic blitz, mostly for ex-
ceeding speed limits. The N.T.
Council for Aboriginal Rights asked
for a ban of offensive terms such
as “boong.” Obituaries included
rubella effects discoverer Sir Norman
Gregg, Mr. Justice Bridge, of the
N.T. Supreme Court, and W.A. turf
identity J. P. Stratton.
★
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 3-0660.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88. No. 4509
AUGUST 6, 1966
Indonesia without Cant
T)RESIDENT Sukarno’s defiant
speech last week at the
swearing-in of the new Indonesian
Cabinet emphasises again that the
new triumvirate’s struggle to des-
troy his remaining power and
prestige will be a protracted pro-
cess. It may even be a bloody one
>—• a possibility that can never be
ruled out in a country which has
recently witnessed the worst mass
murder in Asia since the partition
of India or the Chinese Revolu-
tion and the worst in the world
since the Nazi genocide. It is not
even completely definite that it
will succeed.
One minor miracle has certainly
occurred in Djakarta to use
Robert S. Elegant’s words, meant
almost literally, in his article in
this week’s issue. Sukarno had
created a country cut off from the
world (“Go to hell,” he told the
U.S. and the U.N.); almost lost
to the Communists (their Sep-
tember 30 coup failed by a fluke);
economically ruined (the amount
of money in circulation increased
70 times in eight'years); and
incapable of handling reality
or thinking in other than the
cant-ridden jargon of Sukarnoism
(Necolim, Nasakom, Nefo,
Oldefo). Yet the triumvirate that
is replacing him has already
surmounted great obstacles: it
has not only destroyed the Com-
munists but returned to the world
community, recognised the eco-
nomic mess and even made it
possible for Indonesians to talk
about their problems in straight-
forward, commonsense terms a
fantastic revolution in itself.
But it is still touch-and-go
whether the revolution will survive.
In fact, the economic situation has
become worse since the triumvirate
came to power and this is a
field where Australia can, and in
its own interests should, help.
The problem is not food, as our
gifts of rice (to flood victims) may
suggest. Nor can we do much to
help clear up the morass of cor-
ruption and government dis-
organisation, or to service the
country’s debts to Communist
countries: these are obviously
problems that the Indonesians must
settle themselves. But we could
help dramatically in the fields of
industry and transport, on the re-
vival of which Indonesia depends.
At the moment most of the
country’s factories, motor vehicles,
and ships are lying idle. Australia
could, for example, take responsi-
bility for some major project, such
as the rehabilitation of the port
of Djakarta.
The ridiculous thing is that
there is one school of thought
which argues that the West should
not help the Indonesians until they
show that they really mean busi-
ness by once and for all getting
rid of Sukarno: all this can do is
to delay urgently needed progress,
undermine the triumvirate, and
guarantee Sukarno’s come-back.
By its potential wealth, its
numbers, its size, and the dynam-
ism of its people, Indonesia is cast
for a major role in South-East
Asia. The next year will tell
whether it will contribute to the
development of the region or re-
vert to its destructive role. At
the moment it could still go either
way. It is clearly of the utmost
importance to Australia that it
does not go back to Sukarno’s way.


THIS AUSTRALIA
The Conversion of Arthur Calwell
THE Right Wing’s assumption that the Left would suffer because Mr. F. E.
Chamberlain was sick in Perth proved justified in Surfers Paradise last
weekend. The Left did miss the West Australian Secretary; they were
ineptly led and by the narrowest of margins the conference lifted all prohibitions
on State Aid for denominational schools.
With this decision State Aid moves
from the realm of high policy on to
the political auction block. Up to now
the Liberal and Country parties which
jointly make up the Holt Government
could do what they liked on State Aid.
If they thought that a dose of State
Aid would attract the Roman Catholic
vote they have been free to administer
a dose of State Aid to the electorate.
Labor could not follow or match them.
Labor did not suffer only from this
disadvantage. It suffered the extra
disadvantage that any time the Gov-
ernment was*’ in difficulties it could
always put up something associated
with State Aid and then sit back while
it watched the wriggling, uncomfort-
able Labor Party try to evade voting
against the Government proposal.
Now this Liberal-Country party
monopoly over the exploitation of State
Aid has been broken. Labor is free
to exploit it. The only limit upon what
the Labor Parliamentary parties can
do or promise in this field is that what
they do or propose to do should be in
operation in any Australian State or
Commonwealth Territory. As aid is
given on such things as capital assis-
tance, salaries for teachers, subsidies,
and so on in New Guinea over a wide
range this limitation is formal rather
than real.
It was really fascinating how the
changed policy came about. It was not
as a result of a change of heart. There
were 18 delegates of the 36-man strong
Federal Conference in Surfers Para-
dise against State Aid and in Federal
Conferences deadlocked votes are
decided in the negative. The change
was due to two factors: The tactics
of the Right Wing and the attitude of
Opposition Leader Mr. Calwell.
In the past the Right Wing which is
pro-State Aid has maintained a defen-
sive posture.
But on this occasion the Right Wing
decided to take the initiative instead of
leaving the Left Wing to call the tune
and then seeking to do better than
them in the subsequent jig. Right-
wing pro-State Aid N.S.W., which
knew that it could not get through a
resolution on its own endorsing State
Aid, decided to support a motion
moved by Victoria, most anti-State Aid
of all the States.
This Victorian motion, with an
amendment by State Secretary Bill
Hartley, though it prohibited capital
assistance for private schools was, in
the N.S.W. view, preferable to the
motion wanted by the ALP Education
Committee which sought to freeze
“fringe benefits” for private schools
until an inquiry in the dim, distant,
and unspecified future. Having thrown
the conference into considerable con-
fusion by supporting the Victorian
motion, N.S.W. then steadfastly adhered
to support for a contradictory motion
moved by Mr. J. T. Tonkin, a former
W.A. Deputy Premier and Education
Minister. This motion provided for the
retention of benefits (including the
capital assistance) which the previous
motion had banned.
N.S.W., which only had 18 votes
from the pro-State Aid States (itself,
Western Australia, and Tasmania) had
not enough votes to get this motion
through. With 18 votes it had to take
the risk that the conference would
divide 18-all, and under conference
rules a deadlocked vote is decided in
the negative. The pro-State Aiders had
to gamble on winning over somebody
from the other camp. It won over a
strange convert who switched (as the
subsequent debate showed) because he
had made a mistake in what he was
voting for. The convert was no less
Bill Hartley—lost without Chamberlain.
than the Federal Labor Leader, Arthur
Calwell himself.
Calwell had made it clear that he
was against direct State Aid. He
turned thumbs down on another West
Australian Tonkin-moved resolution
which sought to provide for direct
State Aid. He described this motion
as “evil” and “weak.” He did not
want it. But when the vote was taken
on the second W.A. motion for the
retention of existing benefits the
motion which lifted all ALP bans on
State Aid he voted for it and
against his Victorian co-delegates, to
give the Right Wing their 19-17 victory.
Calwell clearly did not realise what
he was voting for. When Clyde
Cameron (MHR S.A.) next day put
his finger on the contradiction, he
pointed out that Labor had approved
a policy of banning capital assistance
for denominational schools and in the
next resolution had approved a policy
of allowing capital assistance for
denominational schools.
Calwell accused Cameron of “mis-
chief making.” This was not what
the conference had approved, Calwell
claimed. It had prohibited capital aid
for private schools. This was the
binding resolution. It overrode the next
resolution which Cameron was alleging
allowed capital aid for private schools.
“Who could say it overrode it?” Cam-
eron asked. He for one was puzzled.
Calwell said he saw no need for in-
terpretation. The Victorian delega-
tion’s motion against capital assistance
was the one that stood. The West
Australian resolution (on which Cal-
well’s had been the key vote) provided
only for the maintenance of existing
benefits.
Amid groans from the conference
he said that if the need for interpre-
tation arose Federal Executive could
be called upon to do the interpreting.
The conference accepted that an in-
terpretation had to be made at once.
Cameron’s interpretation move was
a very shrewd one. There were present
at the conference 18 pro-State Aiders
and 18 anti-State Aiders. If Cameron
moved that the prohibition upon capi-
tal assistance should apply in the future
the conference would deadlock 18-all.
His proposal on interpretation would
then be declared lost and the negative
—that capital assistance was not pro-
hibited would stand.
So Cameron moved that the inter-
pretation should be that the prohibition
upon the provision of capital assistance
should be lifted. But the other anti-
State Aiders were too busy licking their
wounds (something that their erstwhile
leader Mr. Chamberlain never wasted
time nor energy doing) to see the
advantage that Cameron’s motion in
that form gave them. The five South
Australians and the six Victorians voted
for the Cameron motion, leaving only
the six Queenslanders defiant.
Accident and Left-wing stupidity
rather than any real change in atti-
tude has altered Labor’s policy from
anti-State Aid to “anything goes.”
ALAN REID


Stayput Captain Benson
THE Victorian Labor Party recently decided to send its leading members
around the State lecturing on the Party’s attitudes to the war in Vietnam.
Captain Sam Benson, MHR for Batman, was detailed to speak to the Clifton
Hill branch of the Communist-led Amalgamated Engineering Union.
He sailed into hostile waters prow-
first and told the members of the
AEU that he was very concerned
with the action of certain trade union-
ists and others who said they supported
Labor, but by their voting and subse-
quent actions did everything to em-
barrass the Party. Specifically, he
condemned the leaders of the Seamen’s
Union (of which he was a member for
some years) for refusing to man the
supply ship Boonaroo, which was under
Government charter to take stores to
Australian soldiers; and for the little-
publicised black ban the union placed
on American ships entering the port of
Melbourne. (The latter ban was im-
posed when American forces were visit-
ing Australia to celebrate the Battle
of the Coral Sea.)
The members of the AEU, who had
come along to hear a general attack
on the Government’s foreign policy,
were offered ambiguous comfort when
Captain Benson deplored the sending
of young conscripts overseas without
a declaration of emergency or national
danger, and attacked the inconsistency
of the Government’s policy of verbally
condemning Red China whilst allowing
large-scale trade to grow between that
country and ourselves.
There was no ambiguity in his sub-
sequent challenging statement: “To my
way of thinking, friendship with
America is most essential and we can-
not afford to throw overboard the
security which America is prepared to
give us there has never been any
mention of America walking out on us,
but there has been far too much un-
favorable comment in our country.
The slogan ‘Yank Go Home’ is
offensive.”
Captain Benson related to his dis-
mayed audience his impressions of a
trip made to Singapore with five other
members of the Labor Party: “Prime
Minister Lee Kuan Yew made it pretty
plain to all of us that he feared that
if America was forced to withdraw
from South Vietnam, the whole of
South-East Asia could be taken over
by China.”
The speech was not well received
by its audience, a solid proportion of
whom were members of the Communist
Party, but it illustrated two important
things about Captain Sam Benson: His
passionate concern for the defence of
Australia and her allies and his politi-
cal courage.
The courage has already been re-
vealed to the Central Executive of the
Victorian ALP, and it will be further
demonstrated to other groups in the
Party in the continuing dispute over
his membership of the Defend Austra-
lia Committee. By no means the
boisterous, barnstorming politician,
neither is Benson a man to back down
and apologise once he is convinced of
the integrity of his position. He will not
resign from what he believes is the
basically non-party-political Defend
Australia Committee, even if it costs
him his Party membership and his
parliamentary seat.
These are strange days when the most
powerful faction of the ALP seeks to
drive out a man who knew poverty as
a child, was unemployed during the
Depression, has been in the Labor Party
since he was 18, was one of the first
Victorian members of the Party to de-
clare his loyalty to the new “anti-
Grouper” executive in 1955, and is per-
Sam Benson—no sell-out.
haps the only ALP member in Victoria
with a chance of holding the swinging
seat of Batman for the Party.
Sam Benson’s father was killed in
1916 in the first battle Australian
troops fought on French soil (5500
Australians were killed in one night).
His mother’s pay was stopped for 12
months while his father was presumed
missing and he remembers rising at
4.30 to help his mother in her job as
a cleaner at the local State school.
After years of financial struggle he
went to sea as a deck hand. Over ten
years he rose from Ordinary Seaman,
Able Seaman, Second Mate, First Mate
to Master and, because he was a long-
time member of the Naval Reserve, was
drafted into the Navy on the outbreak
of World War 11. For the first few
years he was engaged in escort work
in the Atlantic and later commanded
a corvette in Australian and Pacific
waters. He was twice mentioned in
despatches, received the Reserve
Officer’s decoration and also a Royal
Humane Society Medal.
After the war he worked as a cap-
tain for the Adelaide Steampship Com-
pany before joining the pilot service in
Port Phillip Bay, a job which allowed
him time to become an ALP Councillor
and Mayor of the Melbourne bayside
suburb of Williamstown. He was the
third and unsuccessful ALP Senate can-
didate in 1961, and in 1962 won the
Federal by-election for Batman. He
had no comment to make when I asked
him last week if the Victorian ALP had
chosen him, a man without leanings to
the ideological Left, because the Party
was at the time only one representative
away from the Treasury benches and
could not afford to risk one of its own
favorite sons in such a doubtful elec-
torate.
The Victorian ALP Executive has
never forgiven him for voting against
'the weight of its opinion on the Ameri-
can base at North-West Cape. The
antagonism was deepened by his sup-
port of Mr. Whitlam in the recent
Calwell-Whitlam Caucus contest. Mr.
Calwell’s personal bitterness at this
vote of Captain Benson is expressed in
his oft-repeated sentence “I was sup-
ported by every Caucus member from
Victoria all except one.”
Captain Benson is a young, pink-
faced, and fit 57. He refuses to let
political faction fights worry him any
more, and despite his open support
and admiration for Whitlam there is a
hint of regret in his vehemently stated
position: “What this party needs is not
only men of strong democratic prin-
ciples, but men who are prepared to
fight to the end for those principles.
What sort of a man would I be if, be-
lieving that, I gave in or sold out on
a matter so vital as the defence of this
country?”
BRIAN BUCKLEY
A.C.T. Budget
CANBERRA’S National Capital
Development Commission had an
acute public-relations problem in
the first few years after its establish-
ment in 1957. Its city was the butt of
endless jibes.
The position is now quite different.
For good reasons or bad, Canberra’s
image is fine. Immense numbers of
visitors come each year. No one knows
quite how many, but a considered guess
is three-quarters of a million. Half a
million people go through the War
Memorial Museum and more must turn
up in the city without tramping the
floors of that strange structure. And
over 90 percent of the visitors who
fill in their comment cards provided at
tourist centres write complimentary
things on them, many of them
specifically saying they think money
spent on Canberra is money well spent.
But if Canberra is in favor with
ordinary Australians, there is no assur-


, V :
HR
*
: -r..-••
i ims-
,
M
■Bl fj( ;
40 years ago the best way to copy
a document was to photograph it. Now! It is again with ...
K NEW DRV PHOTO
Photography is still the best way of getting high quality copies
from any document. Photography gives full tonal and colour
values, with clear sharp images. Only the 3M dry photo copy-
ing method uses photography in a fully automatic copier. And
with 3M dry photo-copying there are no messy chemicals,
toners or powders. You get photo sharp prints from any
document, whether printed, typed, written or drawn, whether
black and white or full colour. You can even copy from books.
See the 3M Automatic Dry Photo Copier in operation at the
3M centre soon.
* There are only nine copying machines on the Aus-
tralian market using no additives, chemicals or toners.
Six of these are made by 3M. Unless you see the 3M range
you aren't being fair to yourself!
LOOK TO 3M FOR IMAGINATION IN IMAGE MAKING
3m
* Source "Mode" Magazine. March 1966
mn
a a
MODEL 209
MODEL 107
MODEL 50
MODEL 31
if you want low cost photo quality copies see 3M’s new Automatic
Dry Photo Copier. MAIL THIS COUPON NOW!
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 2 Wentworth Avenue, Darlinghurst. N.S.W.
Please arrange a demonstration for me.
Name a
Position
Company
Address State
or phone the Business Communications Centre in your state. Sydney 43-0455. Melbourne
61-3841. Brisbane 5-4131. Adelaide 51-5971. Perth 28-4651. Hobart 3-3104. Canberra 4-0791.
3M2 2963/66


ance that it is with those who make
the ,more immediate decisions. Can-
berra development was a Menzies
specialty, the Lodge being his home
and the Windsor Hotel his Melbourne
accommodation. At his retirement Press
Conference he described Canberra as
his pride and joy. But the big ques-
tion is whether his Bingle Bay-Portsea
successor will view the city as sym-
pathetically. Will the Development
Commission’s $35 million budget suffer
under the new cabinet?
Paradoxically, Mr. Holt has come to
power just as the more ethereal pro-
jects are completed. The Lakes and
their landscaping are done and $6
million has been spent. The cere-
monial Anzac Parade ($500,000) is
finished, too. Apart from a small
memorial ($40,000), the NCDC has no
more projects which could be called
non-functional. The $7 million National
Library building is well under way and
the permanent housing to replace a
scattered collection of huts, basements,
and stores could not be delayed. Be-
yond that, some $25 million is needed
to continue with the expansion of basics
—sewerage treatment works, water
supply, and roads.
And for the budget-cutters there is
the difficulty that Canberra’s growth is
now largely self-sustaining. Once it
relied heavily on Public Service trans-
fers from Melbourne, but now the Can-
berra-based Public Service grows by
1400 a year and non-Government em-
ployment attracts another 2000 workers
each year.
Last year it was decided to halt
transfers from Melbourne and this will
mean 350 fewer jobs in Canberra,
hardly a major blow to a community
whose population is growing by almost
10,000 a year. The ,most likely develop-
ment is a rise in local charges and rates.
Already these have gone up somewhat,
and stamp duty is being introduced.
But there is no denying that the people
of Canberra are still not paying their
way, even allowing for Commonwealth
payments to the States and the
“National Capital” aspects of the city’s
development. No one knows, however,
the exact extent of the Canberra sub-
sidy and the first thing which is needed
is a comprehensive Canberra budget.
PETER SAMUEL
The Forgotten War
CONFRONTATION or no confrontation, Bangkok or no Bangkok, the Borneo
“war” continues for the 15,000-odd Malaysian and Commonwealth forces
stationed in Sabah and Sarawak.
The border posts maintain their
numbers, their vigil, and their frequent
patrols. The RAF continues to fly
supply sorties to them, dropping or
delivering over 4.5 million lb. of
freight per month. There has been
no further incident with incursionists
from across the border since the June
one at Bau (in the first division of
Sarawak, during which one Australian
was killed and another wounded),
allegedly the result of orders given
well before the Bangkok talks. Never-
theless, the guard remains “up,” await-
ing the ratification of the Bangkok
Accord.
When that takes place, which may
well be any time now, the stage will be
set for an “orderly” withdrawal of the
Commonwealth forces in Borneo, by
far the largest part of the military
machine which checkmated the In-
Denis Healey and Vice-Admiral Sir Frank Twiss (Far-East Naval C-in-C)
Inspecting the Commitment.
donesian desire for Kalimantan Utara.
Just how long “orderly” will be is now
being worked out at staff level, and
speculation varies that it will be from
six to eighteen months.
Immediately after Bangkok, and as
a part of the “Hate-Britain” month of
June in Malaysia, it seepied that the
Malaysian leaders were thinking in
terms of an immediate rundown in a
matter of weeks. Whatever the out-
come for other aspects of the Anglo-
Malaysian “love-hate” relationship,
there can be no doubt that the Malay-
sians agreed with Mr. Denis Healey
that, in fact, withdrawal would not be
so hasty, and would, in some ways at
least, be related to the build-up of
Malaysian strength in Sabah and Sara-
wak.
Not that there should be any need
for Malaysia to replace all those who
go. Provided there is an Indonesia
withdrawal, too—not just a publicity
one this time—provided the 4000 or so
irregular Indonesian forces on the
border are also disbanded, provided
Djakarta sees to it that the border be-
tween Kalimantan Selatan and Kali-
mantan Utara becomes once more the
generally accepted frontier, then, of
course, there will be no need for the
military dispositions made when In-
donesian hostility was self-evident.
There are not lacking those who are
sceptical, even now, about these pro-
visions being fulfilled. No doubt Mr.
Healey took the opportunity to impress
upon Kuala Lumpur that the Borneo
border situation is the acid test of
Indonesian intentions.
Indonesia apart, the threat Malaysia
will now have to meet on her own is
a dual one. First of all, the Com-
monwealth forces withdrawal will leave
behind as much a psychological as a
physical vacuum. Amongst the many
lessons of the Borneo campaign is its
disproval of the thesis that only Asians
can fight amongst Asians. Were this
so, what has been crudely dubbed the
“hearts and minds” campaign should
have been easily won by Indonesia. In
fact, Indonesian attitudes toward the
local population, their tendency to live
off the land at the indigenous people’s
expense, have not won them many
allies. The Commonwealth forces have,
on the other hand, often gone out of
their way to be helpful, providing
assistance, aid, and rudimentary social
services (such as the helicoptering of
the extremely sick to the nearest town
hospital) in many areas which have
scarcely known any kind of govern-
mental presence before. With these
amenities disappearing it would seem
naive to expect that those affected will
shrug it off with an “it-was-good-while-
it-lasted” attitude. Equally it will not
be easy for the Malaysians to satisfy the
rising expectations the war has engen-
dered.
Secondly, even as they remain able
and willing to play on “expectations”
of a different kind, so the Sarawak
Communists’ hopes are certain to rise
as the predominantly British presence
departs. The Sarawak Communists


are mainly Chinese and apparently lack
a “Chin Peng,” but they have some
cached arms (brought back from
training on the other side of the border)
and, with an estimated 2000 “hard
core” and another 4000 with “subver-
sive” training, they potentially out-
number the 5000 guerillas Chin Peng
had at his command during the
Malayan Emergency. The official line
generally discounts this, but it remains
the view of some informed observers
that there is some Communist sympathy
and penetration amongst the Ibans
and even the coastal Malays.
Obviously, in the short run, practical
Indonesian-Malaysian co-operation is
essential for the satisfactory ending to
the situation konfrontazi created. In the
longer run, Kuala Lumpur faces the
dual challenge of development and
government of its distant eastern half.
Increased helicopter and air services
can help combat the problems of con-
trol and communications made more
difficult by the absence of roads. Ab-
sorbing the economic impact of the
commonwealth withdrawal and pro-
moting the development of what are
in any case very underdeveloped States
will be an additional strain. Crucially
political relations between Kuala Lum-
pur and Kuching and Jesselton will
have to reach a higher level of under-
standing and fraternity.
The recent dismissal of the Sarawak
Chief Minister does not look like lead-
ing to any serious complications, but
this is the kind of incident which in
future might spark off trouble. The
Malayan Emergency demonstrated
that merely to label Communism as a
Chinese threat does not make the
threat any the less real if Chinese
grievances are not met. Similarly, while
Kuala Lumpur feels justified in re-
garding Sabah and Sarawak as two
States amongst the Malaysian 13, the
fact remains that their problems will
best be dealt with on the basis of their
being in many ways almost a different
and certainly vast country, with dif-
ferent problems, now at a critical stage
of development. With the withdrawal,
the Malaysians will be more on their
own than before. Many consider it
unlikely that, once withdrawn, British
or other forces will find it expedient to
return. While some alliance circles
might hope for Indonesian help should
the Communist problem get out of
hand, it is not hard to imagine that,
in the foreseeable future, any Indon-
esian response would be exceedingly
lukewarm.
Meanwhile, Mr. Healey’s visit threw
little additional light on the nature and
extent of the British “withdrawal.”
The more confusion exists, perhaps,
because the long - time American
dilemma has now afflicted British
politics that of having to say for
domestic consumption what you would
prefer the foreigners not to read. Hence
talks of “massive draw down” along
with assertions of “continued commit-
ment.” Mr. Healey was not specific on
the size of the commitment that will
remain any more than he was forth-
coming on the precise speed with which
it will depart but, presumably, for
the time being the number of those
remaining will probably not go below
pre-1963 levels. In other words, British
forces in this area will still pack a
sizable wallop, even if it pales into
insignificance compared to that of the
Americans.
HARVEY STOCKWIN
The Pride of the West
WESTERN AUSTRALIA gave a hostile reception to John McEwen, Deputy
Prime Minister, when he attended the Country Party conference in Perth
last week. The “West Australian” reflected State Government pique with
an editorial attacking the Country Party leader for having snubbed State
leaders.
Said the editorial: “When the second
most senior minister in the Federal
Cabinet makes one of his infrequent
visits to Western Australia it is incon-
sistent with his responsibilities that he
should spend most of his time dealing
with Country Party affairs. And it is
unreasonable if not demeaning that
State Ministers should have to fly back
and forth to Canberra for discussions
on Federal decisions which bear on
important local affairs.”
The Ord and iron-ore policy were
the two areas where State and McEwen
lines differed most widely. Mr. Mc-
Ewen had taken a new tack in answer-
ing the question: Why did you refuse
to approve the Hamersley Iron
pellet contract? (This move is seen in
the West almost as attempted suicide
in the temperamental international ore
markets whose buyers now question the
freedom of Australian enterprise). He
pointed out that contracts for 300 mil-
lion tons had been approved with
thumbs-down to only eight million tons,
and claimed the price line had been
drawn to help protect Indian and
Malaysian markets.
To this the “West Australian” re-
plied: “The argument that we have to
help India and Malaysia to keep up
the price of iron ore so that they will
help us to negotiate world commodity
agreements for food is specious.”
Mr. McEwen, in turn, snapped back
in a TV interview: “I have lived in
public life for 30 years without ever
before having been accused of evading
my responsibilities or not speaking
straightly, and I have not come to
Western Australia to be told by a
monopolistic newspaper that I have
taken this course.” He pointed out that
the two Governments were negotiating
the Old question, and “it is not for me
to intervene.”
There was more than a hint of
cynicism in his “praise,” before Perth
Chamber of Commerce and the Cham-
ber of Manufactures, of the State
Government. Mr. McEwen said no
State had a more progressive leader-
ship: “They are very eloquent in their
persuasion. If they don’t get what they
want, they hammer on the door. If
that doesn’t do the trick, they knock
the door down.”
But if this wry dig went down well
with businessmen who had heard this
knocking on their doors from time to
time, it was largely nullified when Mr.
McEwen trotted out the same arith-
metic the Treasurer, Mr. McMahon,
had put before the Chamber of Manu-
factures only a few weeks before, and
the External Affairs Minister, Mr. Has-
luck, repeated before the recent Liberal
Party convention: That Commonwealth
grants to the West were disproportion-
ately high $2OO a head against an
average of $9O a head for other States.
This does not wear well in the West,
where State pride is running high and
it is far more fashionable to point out
that Western Australia’s per capita
export income leads Australia, with the
gap likely to grow with iron-ore exports
—so long as Mr. McEwen and friends
don’t interfere too much. All round, the
Deputy Prime Minister’s visit did little
to heal the Canberra-Perth breach.
A Plaza
in the Sun
THE “Courier-Mail’s” long and
somewhat surprising honeymoon
with Brisbane’s Labor Lord
Mayor, Clem Jones, has finally ended
in mutual recriminations. The break-
ing point came with the Lord Mayor’s
announcement that the City Council
would press on with a proposed under-
ground parking station beneath the
projected plaza in front of the City Hall.
For many years the Brisbane City
Hall fronted on a row of business
buildings which ranged from the un-
distinguished to the undeniably seedy.
Immediately to the north the Roma
Street Markets provided a touch of
Covent Garden, at least so far as cab-
bage stalks and congestion went. When
the markets moved into the suburbs
the markets area became derelict.
Various schemes have been published,
including one for a municipal trans-
portation centre, but at the moment
the area languishes sadly. One demoli-
tion area turned into a municipal car
park bears the painted slogan “BCC
fiasco,” one of the rare instances of
slogan-daubers becoming interested in
municipal politics.
The Lord Mayor then turned his
attention to the buildings directly in
front of City Hall, which have been
acquired at a cost of more than $2
million. Demolition of all but one of
these is now completed. In front of
the City Hall, Mr. Jones proposes a
municipal square and beneath it an


underground car park to he leased to
private enterprise.
The first plans for the pla/.a showed
a great expanse of stone or concrete
extending across what is now Albert
Street and on to part of the area of
demolished buildings, to be set off by
a new and more handsome range of
office buildings, including one built by
the Reserve Bank. The plans and model
show no more than the occasional tree,
and the “Courier-Mail's” first reaction
was that innumerable good citizens
would be boiled alive as they crossed
it during the Brisbane summer and cer-
tainly would be struck dead on the
spot if they tried to sit down to admire
the municipal view. A further dimen-
sion to the problem appeared when
it was realised that the difference in
levels would involve the Square being
raised at least to eye level on the
Adelaide Street side, thereby presenting
a massive flight of steps to people
ascending to the Square and doing the
pensioners down yet again.
The background to the present diffi-
culties of Clem Jones is a model lesson
in municipal politics.
The Liberal Party is not organised
at the municipal level in Brisbane, but
the Citizens' Municipal Organisation
(CMO) is de facto Liberal, with
Liberal MLAs acting as CMO cam-
paign managers and vice versa, and the
two parties are equally hostile to the
ALP municipal machine. Years of
ineffectual CMO administration led
to an ALP victory in 1961, a vintage
year for the ALP in Queensland, any-
way. The new' Lord Mayor seized
the opportunity to make an impression
on Brisbane's greatest municipal issue
-sewerage (or the lack thereof) to
the majority of Brisbane homes.
Startled that anyone could even seem
to solve a problem which had been
with them so long, Brisbane voters
responded by giving Jones 23 of the
28 municipal wards at the 1964 elec-
tion and in the vote for Lord Mayor
a personal triumph unparalleled since
the days of Sir John Chandler.
The classic dangers of too great a
majority soon appeared. Mr. Jones
has never been a man to suffer fools
gladly. Local politics is a particularly
dangerous place for men lacking in
this skill. The result has been a sue-
cession of minor explosions from the
municipal caucus room which have
given fuel to charges of “dictatorship”
by the Lord Mayor. In 1964, the
“Courier-Mail” gave Labor and Jones
more favorable reportage than most
Labor candidates can ever hope for.
When the Lord Mayor’s second major
plan the plaza appeared, this
neutrality soon changed to very con-
siderable hostility.
For a while the debate died away
only to rise again w'hen the CMO
leader in the Council, Alderman Craw-
ford, suddenly charged that engineers’
reports showed that underground water
would threaten the ear "nark The
L ord Mayor promptly purchased time
Brisbane's three commercial rhan-
littlo owr ?lon o) to drm
~ , .
\ a su< 1 'V 5 . 01 , <x^ f ’ n . ! s
telecast was extraed by the Town Clerk,
, ° 111 1e P Y to a c l u, ' st,()n by ,h( '
Lord Mayor agreed that accusations of
sort would imperil the City Coun-
s credit on the loan market,
Alderman Crawford and the
“Courier” then began firing in all
directions. The Lord Mayor was wasting
ratepayers' funds by replying on tele-
vision when he could have used the
“Courier’s” columns gratis. He was
using the Town Clerk as his straight
man. He was refusing Councillors
access to relevant files—which were then
tabled briefly at a Council meeting
and whisked aw'ay again. The RACQ
chimed in that closing Albert Street
would worsen traffic congestion in the
city. The State Government, however,
remained unflapped and stated that it
would not interfere, and the Lord
Mayor announced that tenders would
be called to start the project,
DON OXLEY
Tanner
"By George you're right! She has got pretty eyes."


Indonesia
conies back
General Suharto
THE equatorial sun crosses the
Lombok Straits to gild the island
of Bali, touches the fetid dock-
city of Surabaya with a brief, illusory
glory, and awakens the thatched villages
of East and Central Java to another
limpid morning before bringing its light
at the same moment to the green paddy-
fields on the terraced hills surrounding
Bandung and the tangle of tropical
slums and mock-monumental edifices
which is Djakarta.
No more than a hundred miles apart,
the fields and the asphalt streets be-
tween them encompass Indonesia, the
arc of diverse islands which stretches
3600 miles from the Island of Sabang
off the tip of Sumatra, 1200 miles north-
west of Djakarta, to Merauke in New
Guinea, 2400 miles south-east of the
capital. The women of the hills go forth
to work the rice-fields carrying crude
iron implements and hand-woven
baskets as their ancestors have for at
least 1000 years. In the same morning
brightness, streams of rattletrap buses,
smoke-belching taxis, and bicycle-
powered trishaws tumble along
Djakarta’s few highroads, and the rays
from the sky set fire to the gilded tip of
the gigantic hewn-stone pillar in the
midst of Sukarno’s Independence
Square.
Little besides a common language
and a common religion seems to link
the peasant women of the hills with
the blackmarketeers, officials, clerks,
prostitutes, and racketeers of the
metropolis. But another intangible
makes them truly members of one
nation. That bond is called ideology
in the pedantic jargon at once
journalistic and academic of our
times. It comprehends the rigid
etiquette and the precise social struc-
ture which govern life in the villages,
a corpus based as much on the ancient
Hindu myths of the Mahabharata and
the Ramayana and on pre-Hindu com-
mon law as on the strict prescriptions
of Islam. It also comprehends a
phenomenon more readily recognisable
as ideological, the elaborate if in-
choate structure of concepts, slogans,
injunctions, and institutions which Presi-
dent Sukarno called “guided democ-
racy.”
The traditional and the modern
ideologies are inextricably intertwined.
A Western-educated Indonesian lawyer,
trying to introduce some clarity into
his description of Indonesian society
and politics in mid-1966, reverted to
the old models. He explained that
Sukarno had embodied in himself the
three attributes of the medieval Javan-
ese rajah because he was, at once, the
temporal ruler, the priest, and the
generalissimo in war. A moment later,
the lawyer employed a hyper-fashion-
able modern analogy, comparing the
Indonesian people of both the cities
and the countryside to I. P. Pavlov’s
conditioned dogs. “Isolated by their
ignorance of the outside world,” he
explained, “Indonesians really believed
that we were a great and respected
power, shaping the future of the world.
ROBERT S. ELEGANT
Whenever Sukarno came out with a
grandiose new idea or project the entire
country cheered as if by conditioned
reflex.”
The Indonesian people are as
much as any other people and to a
much greater extent than most peoples
—ideological in orientation. The rich-
ness, profusion, and intricacy of Indo-
nesian mythic life, as expressed in
everyday life, contrasts markedly with
the relative simplicity of the Malays,
who are in language, in race, and in
formal religion almost identical .with
the mainstream of Indonesians.
The Malays, a people with little his-
tory, after all, live in much the same
beneficent physical environment. Life
in Indonesia would be unbearably dull
without ideology, for it is almost too
easy to make a comfortable living amid
the natural abundance of the fortunate
isles. The traditional ideology is part
of the texture of the life of even the
most westernised Indonesians, and, un-
til. Sukarno’s eclipse, his modern con-
trived ideology was a dominant factor
in the life of even the most isolated
and ill-educated families on the land.
Yet Indonesia today is in revolt
against ideology. The simple realities
of ecomonics have combined with the
normal human reaction against grand-
iose bombast which is even stronger
than the normal human affinity for
pomp and pretence. The realities of
life in Indonesia came into such violent
conflict with the fantasy world Sukarno
created for his subjects that the Indo-
nesians gave up the glorious shadow for
harsh substance. Today, the strongest
single current in Indonesian thinking
is a conscious and impassioned prag-
matism. The Indonesians leaders
and people alike—are determined to
inhabit the real world rather than be-
fuddle themselves with the opiate of
false glory.
Instead, they speak of Pantja Sheela
as the basis of the new, pragmatic
Indonesia. Pantja Sheela is a general
expression of principles like nationalism,
religion, the popular welfare, and amity.
It is expected to serve, at once, as a
statement of fundamental purpose and
a unifying doctrine.
The physical expression of their
political passions seems essential to the
citizens of Djakarta. Painting slogans
on walls was once a favorite pastime.
Today it is an obsession. The sign-
painters frequently demand that the
occupants of houses supply additional
paint with which to deface their
own premises. Most householders in-
dignantly refuse, but the more canny
provide whitewash, which comes off
easily.
The signs in Djakarta today denounce
the Communists and hail “Pak (Father)
Harto,” who is Lieutenant-General
Suharto, the dominant figure in the
new anti-Communist regime. Students
have scrawled a single great sign on
the wall of a motion-picture theatre
near their campus: “Today. Bandrio
Digantung!” Bandrio Digantung means
the hanging of former Foreign Minister
Subandrio, who is blamed for the
country’s present difficulties. He is also
referred to on the walls as “andjing


The minor
miracle of
Djakarta
Adam Malik
Hamengku Buwono
Peking,” the Peking dog, and he now
lies in jail awaiting trial.
Four years ago, the slogans urged
Djakartans: “Ganjang Malaysia!” —-
Crush Malaysia! In 1957 and 1958, they
exhorted “Sikat Belanda!” “Stamp
Out The Dutch!” Confrontation with
Malaysia is now being decently laid
away, while the Dutch are on most
cordial terms with their former colony.
The ideological vestiges remain, and,
in time, new ideological commitments
are likely to grow r from them. But, at
this moment, Indonesia is unique, the
first nation of Asia and one of the
first in the world to consciously turn
from the comforting cant of ideology
to the cold embrace of reality. India,
even more deprived economically than
Indonesia, remains enmeshed in the
amorphous toils of the indefinable
Nehrunian doctrine. Communist China
has hardly been pragmatic in any abso-
lute terms at any time, though she has
had moments of relative lucidity. But
China is today dominated by the most
doctrinaire and most extreme elements
in the Communist Party, and they are
determined to stamp out rationality,
which they characterise as “bourgeois
superstition.” The experience of Indo-
nesia, the third most populous nation
of Asia, may, therefore, be highly in-
fluential throughout the continent.
The abortive coup d’etat w'hich last
September 30 precipitated the present
course of events a Leftist attempt
to remove the last real obstacle to the
Communists’ peaceful accession to
power by murdering the anti-
Communist high command of the Army.
The plot failed by the margin of a
few minutes. If Defence Minister
General Abdul Haris Nasution had not
taken . advantage of his aide’s self-
sacrifice to escape over his back fence,
clad in pyjamas and staggering from
a bullet wound in his leg, the Com-
munists would have won. If Lieutenant
(then Brigadier) General Suharto had
not been warned of the advent of the
assassins by his neighbor, the Com-
munists would have won. Chance was
the chief factor in preventing the Com-
munists from seizing power with
Sukarno’s blessing. Nonetheless, the
final rejection was both decisive and
gory despite ingrained Indonesian
abhorrence of both decision and blood-
shed.
The Army did not wait for the for-
mal resolution of the languid political
drama to be played out in Djakarta
before it moved against Communist
cadres in the provinces. The orders
apparently went out as soon as the sur-
viving generals had recovered from the
shock of escaping violent death by so
precarious a margin. The orders were
simple and direct: crush the organisation
of the PKI and its satellite bodies—
and kill their leaders. The orders were
carried out with an access of efficiency
which was startling in Indonesia. The
Army controlled the slaughter from be-
ginning to end, turning popular passions
on and off as with a tap. Estimates
of those slain by the soldiers, by anti-
Communist organisations, and by the
general public range as high as half
On the walls: "Bandrio Digantung"
a million. After a tour of Java, how-
ever, I came to the conclusion that
175 to 225 thousand was a more likely
figure. Thus did the generals take a
fearful revenge for their slain comrades
and, at the same time, create a cadre
of millions of Indonesians who must
be strongly anti-Communist all their
lives. If the Communists should re-
cover sufficient power to seek revenge,
the lives of the executioners would be
forfeit.
There is a quiet and numbing horror
in the slaughter of hundreds of thou-
sands amid the curved palms and slow-
flowing rivers of the islands. Not least
disturbing is the outside world’s lack
of concern for the greatest mass murder
since the Nazis’ genocide in Europe and
the communal killings that accom-
panied the partition of India and
Pakistan. The world knew little of
what was happening in the isolated
islands of Indonesia. It seemed to care
even less, perhaps because the victims
were only Communists and Communist
sympathisers. It is flatly impossible to
determine how many non-political in-
dividuals were slain out of resentment
and greed or how many spouses and
children were slain to guard against
revenge. But both moralists and politi-
cal scientists fear that the fates may
someday demand fearful retribution for
the orgy of slaughter.
That retribution, if it comes, will
come at so,me unpredictable time in
the future. At the moment, the most
startling aspect of the transfer of power
in Indonesia is the ease with which it
was accomplished.
Equally startling and even more
internationally significant was the
demonstration of the Chinese Commun-
ists’ utter inability to control or even
direct the surge of events.
Before the coup, the Partai KomunK
Indonesia, quite openly allied with
Peking, was credited with a member-
ship of at least three million, and with,
decisive influence over front organisa-
tions whose membership totalled at least
twenty million. The Party was assumed
to command the loyalty of a substantial
number of units of the regular military
and to control well-trained shock troops
of its own, who were armed, in part,
with weapons smuggled into Indonesia
by the Chinese and, in part, from long-
hidden caches. The Party grew out of
a militant tradition, and it had twice
before 1965 risen in armed revolt
once against the Dutch and once against
the infant Republic of Indonesia.
Yet the PKI mounted no effective
opposition to the Army’s onslaught.
There were no armed uprisings designed
to seize power and almost no organised
resistance to mass arrests and mass
executions. Almost all observers
Indonesian or foreign had feared
that PKI, nurtured on Mao Tse-Tung’s
strategy of “people’s war,” would make
a bloodbath, but only the Communists’
own blood flowed.
The puzzle appears to have a number
of explanations. The PKI had enjoyed
such effective patronage from Sukarno,
the bourgeois politician, that it grew
slack and complacent. The coup of
September 30 sought only the death
of the anti-Communist generals. It
was well planned, but indifferently
carried out, and no apparent pro-


vision was made to alert the appara-
tus in the countryside against possible
failure. When that failure occurred,
the Party, hampered by the indes-
cribably bad communications which
are normal in the republic, was help-
less to .mobilise its strength.
That failure was the greatest single
reverse Chinese Communist foreign
policy has known in recent years. It
undoubtedly stimulated the present
purge of liberals in China. The
Djakarta-Peking axis was to have
shaped the future of Asia. The first
and the third most populous nations
of the continent, the northernmost and
southernmost, both Ccmmunist-ruled,
were to have moulded the intervening
nations by pressure simultaneously
applied from two opposite directions.
Yet dogmatic Chinese ineptitude and
lackadaisical Indonesian indecision sac-
rificed the opportunity. The hardliners
in Peking can now point, with enormous
indignation, to the fact that the PKI
was so inadequately controlled that it
contravened almost every major tenet
of Maoist strategy. Sukarno, the bour-
geois leader, should have been utilised,
but the Communists should have
avoided becoming dependent upon him.
The clandestine apparatus should have
been hard, secure, and, above all,
truly secret. The PKI should not have
relied upon subverting units of the
regular military, but should have built
up its own armed forces. Above all
else, the PKI should not have deluded
itself that it could take power by parlia-
mentary means —or even by extra-legal
but essentially peaceful means. The
Indonesian Communists should, instead,
have prepared for a decisive armed
struggle on the model of the Chinese
party’s armed conquest of power.
The PKI is now an illegal party, and
its remaining sources of power are
being systematically eroded. In much
the Same manner the remaining power
of President Sukarno is being destroyed.
President Sukarno, 64, was a figure
of perennial youth and perennial
youthful folly. He was the satyr wdio
never grew' old though he was forced
to stimulate his fading powers w'ith
hormones and more arcane potions. He
loved fanciful uniforms, his entourage
of beautiful young women, his w'hite
motor-cars, his easy mesmerism of his
ministers, his gay dancing parties, and
his acclaim by the crowds. His life in
power was an adolescent boy’s day-
dream of glory. But it was the youth
of Indonesia who finally brought him
down, the youth who were first revolted
and finally bored by the spectacle of
eternal adolescence w'hich still en-
thralled their leaders.
Indonesia was thrown into utter
economic and political chaos to feed
Sukarno’s insatiable appetites and his
illimitable vanity. It would require two
articles the length of this one merely
to catalogue Sukarno’s aberrations at
home and abroad. An elided list of the
chief events of the past few years .may,
however, convey the idea.
Indonesia not only cut herself off
from the world community by with-
drawing from the United Nations, but
proclaimed a vague state of enmity
not quite war, but by no means peace
against the neighboring Federation
of Malaysia. Sukarno declared that the
creation of that Federation, made up of
Malaya, Singapore, and the former
British Borneo territories, was a “neo-
colonialist plot to encircle Indonesia.”
He ordered a “Confrontation” with the
Federation, which he vowed to destroy.
No more than Sukarno’s other pet
projects was the Confrontation inexpen-
sive. Money poured out not only for
military expenses, but also for grandiose
useless columns to memorialise
Sukarno’s ego, w'hich they almost
matched in size. Sports stadia and con-
vention halls rose for functions like the
Asian Games, the Games of the New'
Emerging Forces, and the Conference
of the New Emerging Forces, all of
which Sukarno said were essential to
consolidate the international prestige
and stature Indonesia had already at-
tained. The money was either borrowed
abroad or manufactured on printing
presses.
The accounting came after the Army,
prodded by restive students, had de-
prived Sukarno of his power. The
country was, quite flatly, bankrupt.
Three men have come forward to
confront that situation. They all carry
the same title, deputy prime minister,
but in reality they rule the country.
The triumvirate is so finely balanced in
function and in political philosophy that
it is impossible to single out one man as
the effective leader, although Lieut.-
General Suharto has just been elevated
to the dignity of Prime Minister. It is
a distinctive Indonesian creation, this
triumvirate, which would be a recipe
for disaster anywhere else. In Djakarta,
it stands a reasonable chance not only
of enduring, but of guiding the coun-
try toward the prosperity and tran-
quillity which should be normal, but
never have been.
Lieutenant-General Suharto repre-
sents the Right and the triumvirate’s
power base in the armed forces, but
Suharto would be considered a moderate
socialist anywdiere else. Less dynamic
than his colleagues, Deputy Prime
Minister for Economic Affairs,
Hamengku Buwono IX, the Sultan of
Djogjakarta, is the balancing wheel. A
man of the liberal centre, he also com-
mands traditional loyalty as the last of
the Javanese rajahs and the esteem of
the revolutionaries who freed the
country from the Dutch because of his
leading role in that struggle. Deputy
Prime Minister for Political and Social
Affairs and concurrently Foreign
Minister Adam Malik is a hard-driving
Sumatran with little formal education
and no pretensions to position in tradi-
tional Indonesian society. The man of
the Left and the practical administrator,
Malik was a dedicated Trotskyite in his
younger days. He learned from his own
experience as Minister of Trade and
Ambassador to the Soviet Union how
impossible it was to co-operate with the
PKI.
The triumvirate has taken a series
of steps designed to bring order into
the economic and political chaos they
inherited. Most of those steps are as
obvious as they are sensible, but none
could be taken as long as Sukarno and
his henchmen held power. Most of
those henchmen have now been deposed
and jailed, while Sukarno himself has
been stripped of almost all real power
and even deprived of his lifetime
tenure of the presidency. Elections have
been promised, but they will take a
while to arrange.
Restoration of the country’s inter-
national standing is, somewhat para-
doxically, the first essential for restora-
tion of internal economic order. Only
generous and protracted foreign
credits can prevent a formal acknow-
ledgement of bankruptcy and provide
the capital equipment essential to re-
habilitate the economy. Malik has al-
ready closed out “Confrontation”
though formal agreement with Malaysia
on terms is being delayed by the obdur-
acy of the prestige-conscious Indonesian
military. He and the Sultan are seeking
postponement of payments on old loans
and extensions of new loans through
bilateral and multilateral negotiations.
Indonesia is also slowly resuming her
place in various international organisa-
tions, though her formal return to the
United Nations has been delayed. At
the same time, Djakarta has decisively
turned its back on Peking, and relations
with Communist China are on the verge
of an open break.
Despite initial attempts to cut
bureaucratic tangles and to control the
virulent inflation, the internal econo-
mic scene has not notably improved. It
has actually become worse in the five
months since the triumvirate came to
power, and only the moderately pros-
perous agricultural sector’s lack of de-
pendence on the modern industrial and
urban sector has prevented catastrophe.
Crop production has been increasing
slightly over the years, but per capita
production is down a trifle. The food
situation is not dangerous, but lack of
modern transport makes it onerous. In-
ternal shipping and air transport have
almost completely broken down. Rail-
roads are running at a slow pace, while
60 percent of Indonesia’s automobiles
and 20 percent of her trucks are un-
serviceable. Export crops are suffering
badly from past mismanagement, from
lack of essential imports, and from the
paralysis of transportation. The chal-
lenge is, therefore, formidable.
Indonesia has come a long way back.
A .minor miracle has occurred. But
Indonesia still has a much longer way
to go. With intelligent assistance she
should be able to complete the journey.


International holidays are expensive?
Would you believe...
a holiday in New Zealand, return airfare*
all accommodation, fascinating
tours for only $159.75?
Would you believe you can buy a 7-day “Airconomy”
holiday tour—including return "economy class airfare,
accommodation, sightseeing—for as little as $159.75?
Would you believe you can choose from over 30 “Air-
conomy” tours—escorted or independent, by bus, ren-
tal car, or scheduled services? Tours range from 7
days to 23 days, choose one to suit yourself. Would
you believe there are other ways you can save money
on a Qantas New Zealand holiday? Would you believe
that under the Qantas “Family Fares” plan you pay
only half fare for your wife and half fare (or less) for
your family? You find that hard to believe? Get smart.
Fill in the coupon and find out. Go for the good times
with Qantas to New Zealand—frequent direct flights,
many by V-Jet.
ALL PRICES QUOTED FROM SYDNEY, AND INCLUDE RETURN ECONOMY AIR TRAVEL
See New Zealand for much less than you think—send this coupon: To
Qantas (N.Z. Holiday Dept.), 70 Hunter Street, Sydney. Place a tick
against the Qantas ‘Low-Cost’ N.Z. holiday plan you are interested in:
I I Airconomy Q] Self Drive Q Family Fares Q Group Travel
NAME
ADDRESS
My Travel Agent is
□ Please tick if for school project. B
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.,
AUSTRALIA'S ROUND-WORLD AIRLINE
45 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
Zl t'l


“NAME,
RANK
AND
SERIAL
NUMBER”
BY IAN HARDING
RECENT Press statements report
that Australian Forces in Vietnam
have been instructed to treat the
enemy humanely as far as is possible.
According to the reports, troops have
been directed to take prisoners wherever
circumstances permit, and to treat their
captives as they themselves would wish
to be treated if captured.
It has also been reported that the
Government of the Democratic Republic
of Vietnam (North Vietnam) has
warned that captured U.S. airmen are
liable to be tried and executed as “war
criminals”; a threat which naturally
provoked an angry U.S. reaction and
the claim that this is “against the
standards of international law” and
“illegal.”
What are the “standards of inter-
national law”? Why would the trial and
execution of captured airmen be
“illegal”?
If there are laws governing these
matters, do they apply to the war in
Vietnam? Are they being observed by
the combatants? What, if anything, can
be done to enforce them and to punish
those who break them?
In international law the protection
of war victims, including prisoners of
war, is regulated, in the main, by the
Geneva Conventions of 1949, popularly
known as the Red Cross Conventions.
(Not to be confused with the 1954
Geneva Conventions’ partitioning Viet-
nam.)
The 1949 Conventions are a set of
four elaborate treaties containing 427
articles to which most nations in the
world are signatories there were 117
States Parties as at June, 1965. The
Conventions do not purport to regulate
methods of warfare in the sense of pro-
hibiting use of particular weapons
e.g., gas, bacteriological warfare, dum-
dum bullets, etc. but to protect and
to give certain rights to various classes
of war victims, such as sick and
wounded troops, prisoners of war, and,
now, by the important Fourth Conven-
tion, civilians. Control of weapons and
methods of war is outside the sphere
of the Conventions and is rather sketch-
ily regulated by such treaties as the
Hague Regulations and the 1925
Geneva Gas Protocol. The Geneva
Conventions are the almost exclusive
product of the International Red Cross,
and the first Convention in 1864 sprang
from the reaction of one man to the
suffering caused by one battle that
of Henry Dunant to the Battle of Sol-
ferino in 1859.
The International Committee of the
Red Cross regards the major belliger-
ents in Vietnam as North Vietnam,
South Vietnam, the U.S., and the
National Liberation Front. It regards
the first three as bound by the Conven-
tions, and has appealed to the N.L.F.
to observe them.
The U.S., South Vietnam, and Aus-
tralian Governments have agreed to
adhere to the Conventions, but North
Vietnam and the N.L.F. have given
equivocal answers in which denuncia-
tion of their enemies has been blended
with explanations as to why they them-
selves cannot be strictly bound by them.
North Vietnam provided itself with a
convenient legal loophole when it
adhered to the Conventions in 1957.
It made a “reservation” in respect of
the Prisoners of War Convention in
relation to prisoners prosecuted and
sentenced under the principles of the
International Military Tribunal at
Nuremberg on account of “crimes of
war” and “crimes against mankind.”
The reference was presumably to
Article 6 of the Nuremberg Charter,
and it would appear that in a sense
the Western nations are hoist with their
own petard, as the Article refers to
“crimes against humanity,” a phrase
capable of wide interpretation. In this
writer’s view, the “reservation” made
by North Vietnam virtually put it in
a position where it can, with an appear-
ance of at least pseudo-legality, ignore
the Prisoners of War Convention when-
ever it chooses. This “reservation” is
obviously the basis on which North
Vietnam proposes to try captured
American pilots.
CONVENTIONS I and 11, relating to
the treatment of sick and wounded
in the field and at sea are very similar
in their terms. In brief, they require that
sick and wounded members of armed
forces who have laid down their arms
must be humanely treated and cared for
by the party to the conflict in whose
care they may be, without adverse dis-
tinction founded on sex, race, nation-
ality, religion, or political opinions.
The dead are entitled to honorable dis-
posal by burial or cremation, and
medical units and establishments and
medical personnel displaying the dis-
tinctive emblem of the Red Cross may
not be attacked, damaged, or hampered
in their activities.
Convention 111, the Convention rela-
tive to the treatment of prisoners of
war, is probably the most elaborate and
best knovyn of the Conventions, and it,
of course, forms the basis for the cur-
rent dispute over Hanoi’s claim that
it not only intends to try and execute
captured American airmen, but is
legally entitled to do so. The best
known provision of the Convention is
the time-honored requirement that a
prisoner shall be only required to give
his name, rank, serial number, and date
of birth. It can be stated at once,
categorically and authoritatively, that
in no conflict since 1907 has any com-
batant nation in any war observed this
requirement in relation to its prisoners.
Distinctions have only lain in the means
whereby additional information has
been sought, ranging from compara-
tively refined interrogation to the most
barbarous of torture.
Other Articles of the Prisoners of
War Convention seek to ensure humane
treatment, proper food, clothing, and
medical treatment and to regulate con-
ditions of work. An important provision
extends the protection of the Conven-
tion to irregular forces, e.g., members
of resistance groups and volunteer
corps. Prisoners . are entitled to send
and receive correspondence and to have
recreation facilities, and the disciplinary
and punitive rights of the Detaining
Power are strictly regulated.
Most importantly, in view of the
assertions by Hanoi that captured
American pilots would be tried accord-
ing to the legislation of the DRV by
the court of the “Vietnamese People,”
prisoners of war may only be tried by
a military court, and may not be
sentenced to any penalties except those
provided for members of the Detaining
Power’s armed forces who have com-
mitted the same acts. Any form of tor-
ture or cruelty and imprisonment in
premises without daylight are forbidden.
The death sentence cannot be pro-
nounced on a prisoner of war unless
the attention of the court has been par-
ticularly directed to the fact that the
prisoner owes no allegiance to the De-
taining Power. Prisoners are entitled to
be defended by a competent advocate
of their own choice, and if the death
sentence is passed on a prisoner a mini-
mum of six months must elapse between
sentence and execution.
A controversial provision requires
that all prisoners must be repatriated
immediately after the conclusion of
hostilities. This led to protracted bicker-
ing at the conclusion of the Korean
War, when the U.N. Command claimed
that many of its prisoners did not desire
repatriation.
So much for the Conventions. Are
they being observed in the Vietnam
War? The answer must be a very,
very definite No. Major and minor


No Geneva treatment for U.S. pilots.
Nor for the corpse of this VC soldier.
breaches are being committed by both
sides. Many will recall seeing a recent
Press photograph—an official U.S. Army
release—showing the corpse of a Viet-
cong being dragged in Achillean
triumph behind an American tank. A
minor breach, since the victim was in-
capable of further suffering but still a
breach, and symptomatic of the ideo-
logical fever raging in this conflict, a
fever, which in itself operates strongly
against observance of the Conventions.
And, from the other side, the film of
impassive, manacled American airmen
being led through a crowd of hysteri-
cally hostile civilians is again both a
disclosure of breaches of the Conven-
tions and a symptom of the strength
of the ideological hatred.
In a recent article an English re-
porter described a flight with a U.S.
general in a helicopter on a private
“zapping” expedition. The general in
Law and Death in Vietnam
his brief excursion “zapped,” severely
wounded and captured a young Viet-
cong. “I want this Commie bastard
alive till we get back—just stay with us
till we talk to you, baby,” remarked
the general.
The severely wounded prisoner
apparently underwent searching double
interrogation, first by his U.S. captors,
and then by the South Vietnamese to
whom the Americans hand over their
prisoners on the rather dubious tech-
nicality that the war is “officially” a
South Vietnamese and not a U.S. affair.
Whilst both the U.S. and South Viet-
nam have stated that they will adhere
to the Conventions, their own Press and
newsreel releases make it clear that
at least in respect of interrogation and
detention of prisoners, no attempt is
made to observe the appropriate rules.
The North Vietnamese and Com-
munist Chinese Press is hysterical in
its denunciation of alleged breaches of
the Geneva Conventions by the “U.S.
Imperialists” and their “lackeys,
stooges, henchmen, dupes, etc., etc.”
However, close analysis of the allega-
tions indicates that most of the inci-
dents do not relate to matters covered
by the Conventions, but to .modes of
warfare—i.e., use of napalm, gas, aerial
bombing, etc. It is obvious that the
Communist diatribes both reflect and
at the same time seek to promote and
encourage popular detestation for these
methods of warfare. Western observers
should perhaps bear in mind that while
we may be willing and able to make
nice distinctions between treaties pro-
tecting war victims as distinct from
methods of warfare, Asians may tend to
be less discriminatory, and will cer-
tainly not be willing to observe treaties
like the Geneva Conventions whilst their
opponents employ methods of warfare
to which, logically or otherwise, they
are genuinely strongly antipathetic. The
fact that the Communists regard the
killing of civilians during an aerial
attack on a military target as
“criminal,” whilst apparently approv-
ing the detonation of Claymore mines
in restaurants crowded with civilians, is
characteristic of the dual morality which
always prevails in ideological conflicts,
Amongst official utterances from the
Communist side one of the most de-
pressing is that made by the “Libera-
tion Red Cross” in October, 1965, that
there can be no basis for discussion on
prisoners of war in South Vietnam
whilst the U.S. refuses to recognise the
NLF (Vietcong) as the sole genuine
representative of the South Vietnamese
people. Statements like these do little
to engender hope that allied prisoners
in the hands of the Vietcong will be
reasonably treated,
There is little doubt that national
attitudes toward observance of treaties
like the Conventions vary widely. In
my view, and experience, British
troops in general and Australians in
particular have always been fairly
willing to treat their foes with
reasonable humanity, insofar as the
business in hand would permit, because
by training and background hatred for
their enemies has not been a necessary
element in their military attitude. By
contrast, troops who are emotionally
involved—and this includes not only
fanatical ideologists like Nazis and
Communists but some of their oppon-
ents —naturally feel that their foes merit
no measure of respect or mercy. Con-
trary to popular belief, apart from not
being humane, fanatics are not efficient
soldiers. Some of the world’s best troops
have been mercenaries, with no stake
in the conflict except a financial one.
In Vietnam, undoubtedly the most
significant breach is one that at the time
of writing may be only a threat—that
is, the intention of North Vietnam to
try and to execute captured American
airmen. Airmen have always been an un-
popular class of combatant and have
not infrequently been executed, e.g.,
captured British airmen were executed
in Germany on Hitler’s orders in World
War II and American airmen by North
Koreans in the Korean War. And,
apart from airmen, there have been
numerous instances of execution, some-
times through misunderstandings, some-
times as deliberate reprisals.
Usually, non-combatants behind the
lines have been more willing -to take
summary vengeance on prisoners than
front-line troops, who often engender a
rough respect for their foes. But all
these executions and other breaches
have been more or less clandestine, with
little attempt to justify them legally.
If Hanoi proceeds with its pro-
posed trial and execution of American
airmen on “legal principles” allegedly
the same as those on which Nazi war
criminals were tried, this will be a
greater blow to the Geneva Conventions
and all that they represent than all the
other violations of their principles
which have occurred. North Vietnam
may have a technical legal loophole,
though it is of very doubtful validity,
but the use of its “reservation” may
well be a death blow to the Conventions.


The Plimsoll Line
Australia’s Colonial Policy
Sir James Plimsoll
Sir Percy Spender
By W. J. HUDSON
IT was perhaps inevitable that dis-
mayed Africans should associate
the action of Sir Percy Spender in
casting the deciding vote against Liberia
and Ethiopia in the South-West Africa
matter with Australian policy on the
territory and colonialism generally.
And it was understandable that Mr.
Holt should publicly defend Sir Percy.
But if Mr. Holt’s defence of the action
of an Australian national on the Inter-
national Court bench confirms the
assumption of anti-colonialists that a
judicial decision at The Hague reflects
policy in Canberra, his defence may
have been diplomatically precipitate.
For the fact is that since the days
when Sir Percy was a power at the
United Nations, first as Minister for
External Affairs and then as commuting
Australian Ambassador in Washington,
Australian policy on colonial questions
has changed markedly from blanket
conservatism to a friendly, and fairly
successful, flexibility. It would be
a pity (even conceivably a tragedy in
New Guinea terms) if the Court maj-
ority and Mr. Holt have between them
undone the work of recent Australian
diplomacy at the United Nations.
Australia’s new line has been little
appreciated at home. How many of
his detractors, for example, know that
Sir Robert Menzies wrote to Portugal’s
Salazar late in 1961 urging the Lisbon
Government to abandon its constitu-
tional view of Angola as a province,
to report on the territory to the United
Nations, and to recognise the right of
the people of Angola to a free exercise
of self-determination?
When Spender succeeded H. V.
Evatt at External Affairs late in 1949
there was, on colonial questions at least,
something approaching a bi-partisan
policy. In the war years, Evatt had
worked for a new order in the colonial
world based on the humane and pro-
gressive administration of colonies to
be assured by virtually universal ac-
countability to the United Nations. It
quickly emerged after 1945 that many
anti-colonial members of the United
Nations were not interested in human-
itarian gradualism.
The anti-colonialists operated on
many fronts, but in general they sought
to tighten the reins of supervision
within the Trusteeship System and to
have the great bulk of colonies covered
only by the Charter’s vague Chapter
XI either brought within the system
or subjected to a somewhat similar
system. On all counts they had few
more hostile opponents than Evatt (for
one thing, their disposition toward
informal charter amendment by resolu-
tion outraged his sense of constitutional
proprieties, but, more to the point, Aus-
tralian interests in Papua-New Guinea
were threatened), and on few issues
was Evatt so hostile as that of South-
West Africa. With extraordinary rhe-
torical vigor, Evatt constantly defended
South Africa’s right not to be pressured
into submitting a trusteeship agreement
for the territory: there was no legal
obligation; the Union’s leaders were
good men and the same could not
always be said of their critics.
Only in the case of Indonesian in-
dependence had the Labor Government
taken a strong anti-colonial line, but by
the time Parliament reassembled early
in 1950 after the defeat of Labor at
the polls late in 1949, tactless refer-
ences in Djakarta to Australian New
Guinea and other frontier areas had
alienated Evatt and most of his col-
leagues.
years at the United
Nations, 1950-58, covered the hey-
day there of anti-colonial activity. Aus-
tralia was almost completely on the de-
fensive in the causes of Western
solidarity and the safeguarding of her
interests in Papua-New Guinea.
Australia’s defence usually was
legalistic. Thus, to take a few examples
involving Spender, he objected to
Assembly consideration of the Tunisian
question in 1952 because of “the
preliminary problem of the competence
of the Assembly to deal with the . . .
question.” In 1953 his was one of only
four delegations to vote against a reso-
lution accepting Puerto Rico as being
no longer a non-self-goveming territory
within the ambit of Chapter XI of the
charter because, he said, “the General
Assembly was not competent to decide
when a territory had reached [such] a
stage,” competence rested solely with
the administering State concerned —-
in this case, the United States. In
1954 he objected on the same grounds
to a similar resolution dealing with
Greenland and to another dealing with
Surinam and the Antilles.
At times there was in debate on
colonial questions considerable bitter-
ness, by no means monopolised by
Menon and his supporters. As Spender
himself said in 1952: “No one can be
expected to lie down and be sniped at
for ever without some human impulse
to retaliate in kind.”
Bitterness characterised especially the
South-West Africa issue, one issue on
which the anti-colonial States year
after year failed to attain their objec-
tive. In her intransigence, South Africa
had the legal and political support
of a number of States, among the most
faithful of them Australia throughout
the 19505. Finally, in 1960, Ethiopia
and Liberia, the senior African mem-
bers of the United Nations, took the
Assembly’s point and launched pro-
ceedings in the Court. Australia was
one of only six States not to support
an Assembly resolution commending
them.
By 1961, Spender had for three years
been at The Hague, Lord Casey had
retired and had been succeeded by
Menzies, and then Sir Garfield Bar-
wick. Australian diplomats involved in
the hard line of the 1950 s had moved
on from New York, where (Sir) James
Plimsoll was now in charge, the Aus-
tralian Government apparently had
resigned itself to departure from New
Guinea, and Australia’s isolation on
colonial questions (voting with Britain,
Portugal, South Africa, and sometimes
Spain) had become diplomatically
hazardous. The result was a general
about-turn in Australian activity. Legal
considerations were dropped; Plimsoll,
especially, mollified anti-colonial States
with sympathetic speeches; Australia
moved away from the colonial intran-
sigents. In particular, Australia dropped
Portugal and South Africa.
Thus, in 1961, the Australian delega-
tion explicitly approved an Assembly
condemnation of apartheid in South-
West Africa and affirmed the right of
the territory to self-determination, and
voted for a resolution accusing South
Africa of deliberately denying higher
education to the territory’s indigenes. In
1962 Australia voted for a resolution
which condemned South Africa’s refusal
to co-operate with the Assembly. In
1963 Australia was content to abstain
on. a call for an arms embargo against
South Africa (even the United States
voted against this) and voted for a
further condemnation of South Africa
and reference of the situation to the
Security Council.
This sort of posture, the personal
diplomacy of Plimsoll, and Afro-Asian
States’ own domestic distractions have
helped give Australia an extended life
in New Guinea. It is to be hoped that
the Court’s odd behaviour and Canberra
reactions do not too seriously interfere
with our final efforts to avoid a Pacific
Congo.


11111111
F
Cl y
.... r,
f -i »
■ '
S .*
:
Iffllll
How to avoid keeping customers waiting on the mat
It couldn't happen in your busi-
ness, huh? But what about all
the telephone callers who are
asked to 'hold the line' ? How
many of them hang up in
disgust? This sort of thing
could be costing you plenty.
The answer is the automated
efficiency of the STC Penta-
conta Pushbutton PABX This
modern business telephone sys-
tem eliminates communications
bottlenecks. Brings new speed
and simplicity to switchboard
operation. Cuts out telephone
delays. Saves time, tempers and
reputations. Makes a business
function more efficiently and
presents an image of smooth,
modern efficiency to the outside
world. Pentaconta is the auto-
matic telephone exchange to
meet the needs of the growing
business. Installations are avail-
able from a small. 20-line unit to
a system to suit any business
and its potential. For further
information, contact Standard
Telephones and Cables Pty.
Limited, 252 Botany Road,
Alexandria, Sydney. Phone:
69 0444. Melbourne 44 5161
Canberra 9 1 043.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe &
Sons Pty. Ltd., Brisbane 4 1 771. S.A.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd.,
Adelaide 51 3731. W.A.: M.J. Bate-
man Pty. Ltd., Perth 21 6461. TAS.:
W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launces-
ton 2 2231. Hobart. Burme, and
Devonport.
AN TTT
JLJLaMi worldwide telecommunications and electronics
ASSOCIATE
155 T


ft
$4-5Z
<f,4 -?2
Si--7S'
For a clean slate
Well within time limits prescribed by law, a widow with adequate probate protection
wipes her slate clean of death duties, legal charges and outstanding household
accounts. Being certain of ready cash at the right time, she avoids loss of assets
through forced sales. It is a tragedy to see an asset, built up on a lifetime of work,
sacrificed simply through lack of foresight. Without careful planning through
A.M.P.’s “Blue Chip” Probate Insurance Plan, your estate may be in jeopardy. Call
in an A.M.P. man for an A.M.P. Family Security Check-up. This provides an auto-
matic review of your probate protection plan, free and without obligation.
ACCEPT
NOTHING LESS
THAN
BLUE CHIP”
PROTECTION
NM/)
0/7
<jAfCE
CCD
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: Sydney Cove
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding $1,600 million which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
Y 5538


The Premier in a Tin Hat
Sir Thomas’ 26 years as top man in S.A.
By J. EDGECOMBE
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD, who
last week announced his retirement
from politics, was far and away
the most successful Premier South Aus-
tralia has ever had. Yet he was any-
thing but a natural choice when he
took over 26 years ago. He had grown
up on the family orchard, and had
been taken from school at 13 to help
pick and cart the fruit to the Adelaide
market from their foggy valley in the
Hills. At 18, raw and strong, he had
enlisted, fought at Gallipoli and in
France, was so terribly wounded that
he was left for dead, was in and out
of hospitals for a year, and yet went
back to his battalion and came home
with a commission.
Nothing had changed. Adelaide was
still countrified, isolated, and self-
centred under its wide verandas. The
ploughing began at the last tram stop.
There was little industry. Playford
went back to the family orchard, mar-
ried, and only slowly turned to
politics. He went into Parliament
through the local Liberal branch with
the help of the late Archie Cameron.
He was huge, nervous, and inarticu-
late as a speech-maker. But he had
energy and judgment in a party which
at the time was damp with mediocrity.
As a returned man a place was found
for him in the Butler Government as
Commissioner for Lands and Minister
of Repatriation to cushion soldier settle-
ment grievances, and two years later he
became Premier, leading a Government
now committed to industrialisation with
something of the desperation of a be-
sieged army of spearmen resolved on
building a munitions plant as the one
way to salvation.
For 26 years South Australia has
been run by an extremely able
managing-director suddenly promoted
fro,m foreman. By and large during
the Playford regime Parliament was
hardly more than the occasional
shareholders’ meeting. The rest of the
directors simply concurred. Playford
worked mainly through his heads of
departments or, more strictly perhaps,
with the brightest of his experts in
the Mines Department, in the power-
ful Housing Trust, wherever he could
find or needed them. There was an
in-group on first-name terms, though
the relationship was always on Play-
ford’s terms. He not only demanded
ideas, he was prolific with his own. He
has a memory to match his vitality
and a mastery of detail that puts a
hard edge to his shrewdness. At heart
he is probably a geologist or an en-
gineer. On a mining field he talks like
a geologist, always preferring to do his
own explaining; and it is only a slight
exaggeration to say that the satellite
town of Elizabeth (which the Hous-
Trust dutifully wanted to call
Playford) is largely his design as well
as his inspiration. It is even nearer
the truth to say that he reopened the
neglected Leigh Creek coalfields in the
north with his own hands. He walked
or rode the open-cut fields with a pick
until the doubters surrendered and he
had laid the first of the three bases
on which the industrialisation of South
Australia has been planned power,
water, and housing. Leigh Creek (more
dependable than expensive and erratic
coal shipments from Newcastle) has
provided the bulk of the power; the
Murray has been tapped for the water
needed for new industries as far away
as Whyalla; and the Housing Trust
has spread cheap homes by the square
mile to keep population coming.
Playford was a Premier in a tin hat.
To everything (including eventually
politics) he brought a near-profes-
sionahsm to reinforce an enormous
enthusiasm. It was entirely typical
of him that during the brief radium
boom after the war he followed the
prospectors to Radium Hill and, con-
vinced that he had something to sell,
personally hawked his samples over-
Sir Thomas Playford will say goodbye to politics in 1968.
seas to clinch a deal with the British
and Americans. Among other things, it
reflected the man’s swelling confidence.
The dictatorial smell of success was
overlooked or drowned in the applause
as the dividends rose. His descents on
Canberra were treated like enormously
successful commando raids.
If the Establishment was admiring
and grateful, Parliament was, for most
of his 26 years as Premier, compliant
and almost boneless. Safe behind a
gerrymander which has been vulnerable
only to slow erosion, his main worry up
almost to the last election was to keep
the vanishing Independents acting like
Liberals—and that presented no great
difficulty. Labor, in the years that
Tom O’Halloran led it, looked more
like a cosy bed companion than an
Opposition—though Don Dunstan, the
present Attorney-General, began to
spoil the Playford nights when he
appeared. Dunstan is one of the few
men who can rattle him. As for
Parliament as Parliament, Playford
called it infrequently and often ignored
it altogether. Having mastered the
art of the radio and television talk as
be mastered most things, he took to
reserving his announcements for his
weekly broadcasts,
The newspapers gave him little
trouble. There are few levers of power
in South Australia and anyone who can
put his hand on them has no great
worries. The years went by with hardly
a word of criticism, except during
Rohan Rivett’s editorship of “The
News ”
Behind , he unbuttoned ma the
~ , ’
t ead >’> h ‘g h -P> teh fd laugh, and a taste
for P lactlcal J° kes ; ‘ here was , Ml ‘ ie
arrogance in Playford and why
not ? The wonder is that, fed as it
was with so much purring approval, it
showed so seldom. Probably it had
nothing to do with his defeat last
year when, after 33 years in a gerry-
mandered waiting-room, Labor edged
through the door. It is accepted doc-
trine and to an extent provable
that he was a victim of his own suc-
cess as an industrialiser. The two vital
seats that he lost were former country
seats which have been invaded by
Adelaide’s spreading development. But
certainly boredom had something to
do with it. He had been there too
long. Even the “Advertiser” could
barely disguise its yawns. It was a
time for change, for new faces, new
ideas. Even the Liberals agree. Even,
at last, Sir Thomas.


ONE MORE
WEEK
Low-powered
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY’S Power
Committee may not be able to make up
its mind who to appoint as Professor
of Fine Arts and Curator of the Gal-
lery of Contemporary Art, but at least
it seems to know w'ho it doesn’t want.
Some applicants for the appointments,
which were advertised last November,
have now been notified that they have
not been chosen.
The Department of Fine Arts and
the Gallery are to be set up under the
terms of the will of Dr. John Wardell
Pow'er. The University learnt of the
bequest 41 short years ago. It was
then valued at about $3,500,000.
Part of the reason for the delay
are the complications of the will. A
more recent complication is that the
bequest is in shares in the MLC
Assurance. These suffered a drop in
market value when H. G. Palmer’s
went into receivership, although, as
the MLC’s dividend is steady, the in-
come has remained the same.
Another possible complication is that
it w'as planned to build the gallery as a
complementary building to the Fisher
library, but the chosen site consists
of four tennis courts, controlled by the
powerful Sports Union, which is reluc-
tant to cede.
When the Vice - Chancellor, Sir
Stephen Roberts, announced in May
last year details of the University’s
decision on the use to which the bequest
w'ould be put, he said it was possible
that the first course would begin this
year.
There is now some speculation on
wEether anything will be decided before
Sir Stephen Roberts retires next
February. In any case, in the minds
of most people with more than a casual
interest in art, the Power Gallery and
Fine Arts Department will remain as a
permanent reminder of Sir Stephen’s
term as Vice-Chancellor.
Lifemanship
THE WAR BOOM is over in chil-
dren’s toys, a fact reflected when the
Toy and Games Manufacturers’
Association of Australia held their
annual Toy Market last week. In fact,
the latest game from the John Sands
range is called Life. This saga is played
with a plastic wheel of fortune, and has
the old-fashioned Monopoly style
but the player goes his way to success
or failure wdth either a business or
university education, ends as a million-
aire or in the poor house. Unlike real
life, everyone starts off with $2OOO and
a car.
Instead of plastic hand-grenades and
machine-guns, this year there are space
shoes with heavy springs for jumping,
while Batman and Catman suits are
beginning to outsell the Samurai and
the Phantom agents. Zorro, according
to a leading wholesaler, is now zero.
However, guerilla warfare is going
on between the manufacturers of
sturdy heavy-gauge pressed-steel pull-
along toys in Australia and New Zea-
land. Mr. T. A. Tonkin, managing
director for Wyn Products, said that
Australia has been placed at a dis-
advantage because New Zealand can
afford to import stampings from the
United States. They add wheels, axles,
and paint, then assemble and box the
units. This provides the 50 percent local
content, w'hich makes the toy a pro-
duct of New' Zealand. They can then
be exported to Australia and in fact
are British preferential imports.
The price is comparable with the
Australian toys, but the range, based on
the population of the United States, is
five times as great. Wyn Products,
for instance, have taken 15 years to
build up a range of 35 wheeled toys
and can only afford to add new designs
occasionally. Now they, and other
Australian firms, face strong competi-
tion.
Strong competition in a different way
is also coming from the craze for slot
cars, at the moment taking the largest
bite of the toy dollar. These are being
imported from England, America, and
Japan, and every boy must have one.
The Australian manufacturers are
optimistically waiting for the fad to
pass. After all, does anyone still have
a hula hoop?
The First Hundred Years
WHEN WE TALKED to Canada’s
Secretary of State, Miss Judy LaMarsh,
at the end of her week in this country
we made the same mistake that other
people here have apparently made.
Miss LaMarsh was not here to promote
Expo 67, but a much more magnifi-
cent project, Canada’s Centennial—
the 100th Anniversary of Federation—
of which Expo 67, a trade fair, is only
a part.
And only a small part, if one can
judge from Miss LaMarsh’s catalogue
of what the celebrations, claimed to be
“the biggest national birthday cele-
brations the world has yet seen,” will
be.
The Canadian Government will sub-
sidise the building in each of the ten
Provinces of a cultural monument to
the centenary, a theatre, art gallery,
or some such. This generosity will
even trickle down to the 2500 munici-
palities in the country, each of which
will be helped to provide some com-
munity amenity which it could not
otherwise afford.
The national project, Miss LaMarsh
explained, was a centre for the per-
forming arts in Ottawa. This, she
said (and here we seemed on familiar
ground) will not be finished until the
end of 1968 and will not be in use
until the summer of 1969.
Miss LaMarsh said that another
major Centennial celebration would be
Festival Canada, in which the Strat-
ford, Ontario, Company, the Canadian
National Ballet, Les Feux Follets, and
Le Theatre du Nouveau Monde will
take part, as well as Britain’s National
Theatre and the New York Philhar-
monic orchestra. The Canadian
Government has voted $3 million to
subsidise seat prices so that the most
expensive seat will be three dollars.
These companies will criss-cross the
country, some of them going to centres
which have never seen live perform-
ances before.
On a more workaday level, immense
tractor-trailers, containing reconstruc-
tions and relics of Canadian history,
will travel throughout the country
(“And we shall have to pay to have
the roads repaired after them,” Miss
LaMarsh said) and there is a youth
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
The best way to get rid of pornog-
raphy is not censorship but to give
every school child four of the most
pornographic books ever written.
Henry Mayer.
Sir Robert Menzies praised Eng-
land, both past and present, and
premised to found a winkle club in
Hastings, Australia.
Godfrey Talbot on the BBC.
Now there’s a Jaguar XK-E car
for everybody.
Advertisement in “The New Yorker.”
One of the swimmers forgot that
he was swimming and shouted
“Long Live Chairman Mao.” He
swallowed several mouthfuls of water,
but it tasted especially sweet.
Radio Peking,
All modern democracies—including
ours must learn and remember
this lesson: rapid growth and free-
dom require steady self-discipline and
restraint.
President Johnson.
Delegates from Niger to the Afro-
Asian Writers’ Emergency Meeting
wrote a poem: “Mao Tse-tung, you
are our beacon which illuminates,
illuminates, illuminates the darkest,
the farthest horizon.”
Radio Peking.
Technologically this is the most
brilliant age the world has ever seen.
But from the point of view of people
trying to live together peacefully it
is probably the silliest age there has
ever been.
J, B, Priestley.
I passionately hate the idea of be-
ing “with it.” I think an artist is
always out of step with his time. He
has to be.
Orson Welles,
It would not be practical to legis-
late against the use of derisive terms
as “boong,” “nigger,” or “black-
feller.”
—■ South Australian Attorney-General
Dunstan.


travel program under which between
40,000 and 50,000 young people will
be given the chance to see their own
country cheaply.
Miss LaMarsh agreed that this im-
mense effort of celebration was part
of a deliberate attempt by Canada to
give her people, split into British and
French elements and perennially ex-
posed to American ideas, a “sense of
identity.” “We have never known
what it is to be a Canadian,” she said.
“We are coming to realise that one
of the most important things about
Canada is its duality. In fact, that
is the secret of our country.”
Miss LaMarsh’s portfolio corres-
ponds roughly to Minister for the In-
terior or Chief Secretary. Several
ministries are in process of reconstruc-
tion under an Act to be proclaimed
this month. Miss LaMarsh admitted
that, absentmindedly, she recently re-
commended someone for a post, then
discovered the job was still under the
control of another Minister. The new
alignment gives Miss LaMarsh minis-
terial control of most public aspects of
culture, as well as elections and citizen-
ship.
In fact, she now controls many of
the activities, such as the Film Board
and the Canada Council, which Canada
seems to do well and we do fairly
badly. Although there may be some-
thing rather dogged and self-conscious
about the Canadian approach to seek-
ing a “national identity,” it is never-
theless beginning to work.
Something for the Men
IN THE CARD-ROOM of the M. S.
Achille Lauro to hear the announce-
ment of the latest prize for Australian
artists and sculptors, a woman asked
Captain A. T. Marena w'hy the paint-
ing prize was the Angelina Lauro and
the sculpture the Achille Lauro.
“Well,” Captain Marena said deli-
cately, “we have seen some sculpture
wTich is not everyone’s taste. Very
strange. We feel painting is more suit-
able for ladies.” Besides, he added, Mr.
Achille Lauro was a forceful, rugged
man who went with sculpture rather
than painting. Unfortunately, Mr.
Lauro wasn’t there for us to check.
And for some long, shivering hours on
the wharf beforehand neither was his
namesake, a 25,000-ton, four swimming-
pool vessel, making its second voyage
to Australia.
The two art prizes, w'orth about
$3OOO each, include a first-class re-
turn passage to Italy, three weeks in
Italy, and a w r eek in France or Ger-
many to visit museums and art gal-
leries. The wanning entries will be-
come part of the Flotta Lauro decor.
One of the foreign Press, apparently
fearing an outbreak of Baldessin legs in
the first-class lounge, made a gallant
try at persuading Captain Marena, who
is also a managing director of Flotta
Lauro, to import at least one
European judge for the sculpture, but
the company will stick to its plan of
using Australian gallery directors.
Tanner's Week
"And if the situation warrants it we can
always send some of our Navy to Australia."
"It's a heavy blow to imperialism, modem
revisionism, and the monsters and freaks
internationally who were opposed to social-
ism and Mao Tse-tung's thought, and it
doesn't do much for the breast stroke, either."
"I see Britain is escalating its response East of Suez."


AROUND MELBOURNE
Wanted, a Civic Symbol
ONE of the great tragedies of
our beloved city is that we have
never had a symbol, a sort of
civic thumbprint which would signify
This is Melbourne. Sydney has its
Harbor Bridge, Brisbane its City
Hall, Adelaide its noble Colonel
Light statue, but what do we have?
Occasionally we use an idyllic
picture taken from Alexandra
Avenue depicting the grand spires
of the T & G building and other
insurance palaces reflected in the
waters of the Yarra. But it doesn’t
really work. It is not much use for
putting on boomerangs, serviette
rings, plastic beer mugs, and other
important souvenirs of Melbourne.
Already some people are using pic-
tures of our Cultural Centre, but
it will be an utterly second-rate
thumbprint unless they build that tall
golden spire. Many of us have a
suspicion that the spire may not be
built. I mean, after building the
gallery there may not be enough
money left for this piece of orna-
mental icing. After all, Sir Henry
has never given us a Cultural Centre
lottery.
But wait, there is very real hope.
Unquestionably our new symbol will
be the bridge over the Lower Yarra.
You may suggest that there is not
much point in our having a bridge
symbol unless we can out-symbol
Sydney’s symbol. Fear not, we have
that in hand.
AL the office of the Lower Yarra
Crossing Authority they have a
picture of the proposed Melbourne
bridge superimposed over the Sydney
Harbor Bridge. Speaking as an
utterly prejudiced observer, ours
seems to have a distinct edge. Let us
have some vulgar comparisons.
Our main span will be 1100 feet.
Sydney’s is 1600 feet. Our height
above water will be 176 feet. Syd-
ney’s is 172 feet. The total length
of the Sydney bridge is 3000 feet.
Ours will be 9000 feet. The Sydney
bridge has eight lanes, each 9ft.
lOin. wide. Ours will have eight
lanes each 12
feet wide. As for
cost, the Sydney
Harbor Bridge
was only
£9,577,507. Now
considering the
dif f e r e n c e in
prices between
1932 and 1966
you might sug-
gest that this
figure was rather
more than our proposed $32 million.
But look here, there’s no hope of the
bridge being open before late 1971.
I’m sure that by that time we can
push up the price to $4O million at
the very least.
Actually, we have been talking
about this bridge now for more than
20 years. We talk about most things
for more than 20 years. The idea
is to make a fresh crossing of the
Yarra near Spotswood, linking
Williamstown Road with the Geelong
Road. This will mean a new con-
nection between Melbourne and its
West—Altona, Williamstown, Foot-
scray, Sunshine, Point Cook, Laver-
ton, Werribee.
Right now the way across is by
the Williamstown ferry, which
carries 1500 vehicles a day, with
delays of up to 15 minutes for each
vehicle. Our fine new bridge will
carry 30,000 cars a day, rising
within seven years to 50,000 a day.
A former Lord Mayor, Sir Bern-
ard Evans, has told us that the new
bridge will bring all that seaside
area from Point Cook to Altona to
within 15 minutes of the city. Before
you rush to buy a romantic block
you should be advised that this area
of Port Phillip Bay falls a little
short of the Cote d’Azur, but un-
doubtedly there will be a check to
the lopsided spread of Melbourne.
The great enthusiast for all is the
executive officer of the Lower Yarra
Authority, Mr. R. F. Vian. He has
dreamed of the new bridge since
1958, and has done more than any-
one else to get it off the drawing
boards. He says that the best part
will be the drive from Geelong.
Now, to get on to the Geelong Road,
the driver has to pass through 59
intersections and 11 traffic lights.
With the bridge starting from
Spencer Street and Dudley Street
there will be none. Eventually when
St. Kilda Junction is redesigned one
will be able to drive in a splendid
sweep from Geelong via the Lower
Yarra and Kings Bridges direct to
Dandenong.
Test work for the foundations is
under way now and actual construc-
tion begins in October next year.
Yes, Mr. Vian thinks that it will
make a pretty fair civic thumbprint.
The two 400 ft. pylons will be visible
from all over Melbourne.
Of course what has held up pro-
gress in Victoria on new roads and
bridges is the terror of the toll. But
for this we might have had some-
thing better than that frightening
track that we call the Hume High-
way. Back in the days of Yore there
was a toll on the Great Ocean Road
leading to Lome, but apart from
this we have never had a toll road
in Victoria.
WHENEVER it has been sug-
gested, someone has invoked the
Rebecca Riots. You will remember in
the early 19th century there were
1100 trusts in Britain administering
23,000 miles of road with 7800 toll
gates. It all came to a head in South
Wales in 1843. The riot leader was
called “Rebecca,” taken from
Genesis 24, verse 60, “And they
blessed Rebekah and said unto her
. . . ‘let thy seed possess the gate
of those which hate them.’ ”
Rebecca in female garb, plus all
his lieutenants in female bonnets and
gowns, used to make long marches
in the night, then with the blowing
of horns and firing of guns descend
on the toll gates and houses and
tear them to the ground. Certainly
things were done in a more color-
ful manner in the last century,
although the Sydney Harbor Bridge
in fairly recent times has the episode
of the mock opening by Colonel de
Groot to boast about.
Just like the Harbor Bridge the
Lower Yarra Bridge will have most
probably 20 toll booths. The sug-
gested price at the moment is 20
cents for cars and 30 cents for
trucks.
Whether this
will cause any
further Rebecca
Riots remains to
be seen. Cer-
tainly it is much
easier now to
find female im-
personators than
it was in 1843.
BATMAN


The Overcrowded Alice
Carving up the national heritage
By PATRICIA ROLFE
THE difficulty in building tourist
trade is not whether Customs
officers are polite or whether the
local residents look picturesque and act
agreeably, but how to persuade tourists
to go to a place which is overrun with
tourists.
This seems to be the problem which
Alice Springs now faces and which
might make the Centre an interesting
example of what things will be like
when and if Australia does develop a
large-scale tourist industry. The Alice
must be Australia’s first area suffering
a major infestation of tourists. More
people may go to the Gold Coast, but
there you can bury your face in the
sand and go to sleep. More may visit
Tasmania and the Barrier Reef, but
there the visitors are at least strung
out over large areas and more varied
activities.
But once you are in Alice Springs,
population about 6500, the nearest
town is several hundred miles away. In
every direction distance and desert cuts
you off from further choice of com-
pany or entertainment. The Mac-
Donnell ranges are exceptionally beau-
tiful but there is a limit even there to
the number of gorges, gaps, chasms,
and bluffs they can provide. These
must be shared out and, inevitably, at
times one busload of elderly tourists
flat out on their Jolly Swagman tour
is arriving as the last load finishes its
color shots and its visits to the tasteful
toilet blocks which are so much a part
of the Centre’s tourist ambience.
It is not then that there are so many
tourists in the Centre. It is just that
they are confined to such a small part
of what we have always thought of as
the dead heart of a large, empty con-
tinent. In fact, local people have
been somewhat disappointed with the
number of people their earnest efforts
have attracted to the area. The figure
—always hard to calculate when private-
car drivers are involved —for the Terri-
tory has gone from an estimated 14,000
in 1962 to 40,000 in 1966. That elusive,
almost legendary figure —the overseas
tourist—accounts for only an estimated
three percent.
What may make the Alice less
attractive to some tourists is not exactly
that there are so many tourists there,
but that they are all the same sort.
The tourist trade has developed there
under conditions similar to those which
exist in many other Australian fields—
a level is struck and little provision
can be qnade for varied tastes and in-
comes.
It is, of course, easy to sneer at
people whose idea of a holiday is for
everything to be as much like home
as possible, who are reassured by the
appearance of Letona tinned fruit and
custard, of roast chicken and gravy on
their table (although these have to be
transported 1000 miles to grant this
reassurance), who can stand in the
middle of a cattle-raising area and
eat the “staple” diet two paper
plates stapled together, then pried
apart to reveal identical slices of pressed
ham, devon sausage, and potato salad.
It is easy to sneer, “Is this what
pioneering has come to?” and it is
hard to feel excited or inspired.
It now seems certain that the Centre
for many years will be given over to
the organised tourist. And, of course,
the more adventurous have the whole
of the Top End to try safaris,
crocodile-shooting, and to get their
once-in-a-lifetime contact with un-
tamed nature. But it is still some-
what alarming to realise the extent to
which, mainly through circumstances,
the private traveller is excluded from
notable areas of the Centre.
The Centre has, to an extent which
surprises most people who think of it
proudly but vaguely as “part of the
national heritage,” been thoroughly
carved up. All cattle-raising properties
are held on long lease. The Territory’s
Reserves Board, the equivalent of a
National Parks authority, has had de-
clared about 30 areas of the Territory
as reserves. These declarations are a
lengthy process, involving reference to
Darwin and thence to Canberra. The
Board seems to be hard-working,
imaginative, yet with a reasonable
attitude toward the burdens and bene-
fits of tourism.
'J'HE third slice, usually only a few
acres adjoining a notable natural
feature, goes to any tourist operator
who can persuade the holder of a
pastoral lease to grant a sub-lease.
Ansett Industries was the first to
realise the possibilities of tourisjn in the
area. TAA, hampered (as we all know
now, if we didn’t a few weeks ago) by
regulations, could not move in, except
in a roundabout way. So at the
moment, four operators, including TAA
and Ansett, go to Ayers Rock, TAA
and the Central Australian Tourist
Association have Ross River, to the
east of Alice Springs, while the other
areas which have been opened up are
in the hands of Ansett.
Once Ansett gets a sub-lease and puts
up a hostel, the general standard of
which is modest but, considering the
difficulties of the country, adequate,
its facilities are available only to those
booked on organised tours. In an
emergency (one emergency quoted was
when 40 schoolgirls were camped near
Palm Valley, it rained and they ran
out of food) casual travellers are
accommodated, but in general the idea
seems not welcome.
In recent years there has been con-
siderable improvement in roads and
better definition of four-wheel tracks.
However, perhaps because the locals
know where they are going, anyway,
there are few indications of mileage or
direction. This could mean that only
the most determined private traveller
would find his way about.
Although members of the Reserves
Board may feel a trifle depressed with
the idea that everywhere they go,
tourism is sure to follow, the board
presses on with its plans for extending
the areas declared as reserves and ex-
tending the purposes for which reserves
are declared.
At the moment, under the chair-
manship of the volatile Colonel Lionel
Rose, the board has succeeded in hav-
ing about 30 areas declared. They
range in size from Ayers Rock-Mt.
Olga national park of 487 square miles
to the few square feet of John Flynn’s
monument. One of its hopes is to
secure the smallest cattle run in the
Centre, Simpson’s Gap, and to estab-
lish a fauna reserve close to the town-
ship of Alice Springs. This depends
on how quickly the board can find
the animals for the • reserve in an area
denuded of wild life by drought.
Another project in hand is the
restoration of the old telegraph station
at the springs which gave their name
t© the town and about half a mile
from the township. It is planned to
furnish the home buildings in the style
of the 1880 s and to re-equip the tele-
graph station with equipment from the
period.
It would be silly to over-simplify
attitudes toward one of the area’s chief
tourist attractions the aborigines
when many people in both Government
reserves and church missions are en-
gaged in serious work among them.
There is an alleged corroboree twice
weekly in a local cafe, but even now
it is considered inappropriate for out-
siders to see most of the dancing of
religious significance. Some of the
reserves, notably Amoonguna, a few
miles from Alice Springs, Hermans-
burg, and Santa Teresa, are open to
tourists. However, happily no effort
is made to tidy up the aboriginals to
make a better impression on tourists
or to salve the conscience of visitors.
If the aborigines are sometimes less
than picturesque, so are the tourists.
Although tourism has carried Alice
Springs over the recent long drought,
the area is now finding some difficulty
in re-establishing the cattle industry.
Locals report that the Minister for
Territories, Mr. Barnes, who appears
to be a shade less well thought of in
the Centre even than he is in other
areas under his control, has said that
the land should be “rested” for ten


ORIAtfOO
HOW CM
A WINE
THIS
DELICATE
BE SO
FULL OF
CHARACTER?
WHAT IS the secret of Orlando
Barossa Riesling’s outstanding,
prize-winning character?
Almost all of the secret is the
skill and dedication in its making.
Added to which is the fact that
unlike most Australian Ries-
lings it is vintaged 100 per
cent from Rhine Riesling grapes,
picked at just the right stage of
maturity.
These are the reasons why, since
its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more
awards than any other Australian
Riesling.
More than 130 major awards in
Australia and Europe testify to
its distinctive, yet delicate, char-
acter.
Make your next dinner date a
date with Orlando Barossa Ries-
ling ... for the distinctive taste
of the finest dry white wine in
Australia.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling
is made by G. Gramp & Sons Pty. Ltd.,
in South Australia’s famous Barossa
Valley.
1065
years to recover from the drought. But,
the locals claim, six short weeks after
the drought broke they were shipping
fat cattle south.
Townspeople would like to see estab-
lished some local industries which might
have more stable benefits than tourism,
notably an abattoirs.
Alice Springs, like many places and
people which have gained a reputation
for beauty, now seems to be having
trouble in being taken seriously.
ON THE MARGIN
“He cometh not,” she grunted
Anyone who
has tried to
write fiction
knows that one of
the snags is the
word “said.” If you
use it every time a
character speaks,
you get a tiresome
series of “he saids”
and “she saids.”
Ernest Heming-
way led a revolt
against said. He
used to put it in once at the start of
a conversation, then leave the reader
to work the rest out for himself. Many
authors have copied him. But saidless
dialogue becomes tricky after the
characters have talked for a couple of
pages like this:
“There’s something the matter.
Don’t you love me?”
“Of course, I do.”
“No you don’t.”
“Don’t what?”
“Don’t love you I mean love
me.”
“But do you love me as much as
I love you?”
“It depends what you mean by
love . . .”
Without the help of “he said” and
“she said,” it is hard to tell who is lov-
ing who.
One way to avoid a monotony of
saids is to use other words in their
place. There are old standbys for the
purpose, such as answered, remarked,
observed. The range of choice has
been greatly widened, I am glad to
report, by a recent novel. It is a
mystery story entitled A Force of
Innocence, by John Weatherhead, and
it contains no fewer than 113 substitutes
for said.
To illustrate the book’s abundance
in this department, here are samples:
“I hope she’s respectable,” he
quipped.
“Yes,” she spat viciously.
“Good evening, Professor,” he snarled
cynically.
“Well, you know what Aristotle
said,” I chuckled.
“Absolutely!” he shot back.
“The snow’s all gone now,” she
whispered amorously.
“I can’t believe it,” I stammered
incredulously.
“Val’s right,” broke in Dick.
“The bitch!” she cursed.
“That’s why you’re here,” cracked
Randall.
“He was wonderful,” she enthused.
The first thing to be noticed about
this author’s stock of said-substitutes is
their vivid range of sounds. We read at
different times that he barked, he
shouted, he mumbled, she yelled, she
whispered, she spat, he muttered, he
groaned, he bleated, she exclaimed, she
screamed, she snapped, he stammered,
he grunted, he whined, she snarled, she
gasped, she exploded.
Another merit of the book’s advanced
said-elimination technique is that it
explains the effect a person produces
when speaking. Thus, on various
occasions, he prompted, reassured,
scoffed, chided, or bluffed. While she
ventured, taunted, argued, challenged,
or teased.
A useful set of interrupting words is
provided. A character may interject,
break in, chime in, or butt in. There
are angry words for speakers who snap,
snarl, spit, sneer, and shoot back.
Another handy group comprises
words to accompany humorous remarks.
We are told, of a speaker in lighter vein,
that he grinned, quipped, cracked, or
jested; she laughed, joked, chuckled, or
smirked. I have only one reservation
about the ailthor’s use of these humor-
ous said-words. The speeches they go
with are not always funny enough to
justify the reported mirth. Take this
fragment of dialogue:
“And what’s an I VP?” I helped
myself to a cup of tea.
“Intravenous pyel o g r a m,” he
chuckled. “A series of films of the
urinary tract.”
One must just accept that Mr.
Weatherhead’s characters chuckle easily.
While this thesaurus of deputy-saids
is primarily of use to the fiction writer,
I believe its value will extend to other
spheres. In domestic life, instead of
merely saying things to one’s wife, one
may be stimulated to chime in, spit,
shoot back, bark, or whine. She in turn
can experiment in smirking, venturing,
bleating, cracking, and exploding.
Newspaper reporting could be en-
riched by use of more said-variants, e.g.,
“Australia’s export income will have to
double in the next ten years,” gasped
Mr. J. McEwen yesterday.
It is a pity the idea was not con-
sidered by the makers of the new trans-
lation of the Bible, a work which is
notoriously infested with saids and
saiths. They c*>uld have improved on
the obsolete King James Version even
more than the)t did if they had written
sentences like: “And Moses went down
to the people and quipped unto them
ROSS CAMPBELL


WINE OF THE WEEK
LINDEMAN’S
PRIVATE BIN
PORPHYRY
BIN 36
VINTAGE
1960
A rich,
luscious
Sauterne
from the
Hunter
River Valley.
Awarded
GOLD
MEDAL 1964
Brisbane,
GOLD
MEDAL 1965
I?
ill fff* I.#!s 5
| r 3 1 ?
5
' I ?
£ •<
I % 2
% '. »*
■Hi
Sydney Shows, in the Table
Sweet White Open Classes.
MOST SUCCESSFUL EXHIBITOR
THIRO YEAR IN SUCCESSION
AUSTRALIAN
CHAMPIONSHIP WINE SHOW
1964 1965 1966
ilnch
email's
AUSTRALIA'S
GREATEST
PRIZE-WINNERS
LW/PB4oa
WINE OF THE MONTH
The Patriarch’s Bin
Recommended without tasting!
By CELLARMASTER
THIS month I intend to recom-
mend a wine I have not yet
tasted. This departure from the
accepted norm occurs because I have
been caught midstream of available
vintage. But it doesn’t matter, and,
full of confidence, I’ll tell you why.
On the banks of the Murray at
Merbein, just outside Mildura, high
on a bluff dominating the standard
vistas and panoramas, sits the Mildara
winery, one of the best-kept and smart-
est in Australia. Almost end of story,
for the August wine-of-the-month, Mil-
dara Cabernet Shiraz Bin 33, though
blended, matured, and bottled there,
is made elsewhere. But Mildara is run
by Ron Haselgrove, Esquire, OBE,
and he is very much part of this story.
Mr. Haselgrove, a present patriarch of
the wine industry, is a winemaker of
great skill and judgment, and one of
Australia’s brandy distillation experts.
And like all father figures, at times his
assertions and requirements have not
always pleased everybody in the house-
hold. But his skill with wine has never
been questioned.
Mr. Doug Seabrook, the Melbourne
wine-merchant and circuit wine-judge
for many years, refers to “The abso-
lute integrity and devotion to standards
of the Mildara bottlings . . .” And Mr.
George Fairbrother, Chairman of
Judges at Sydney and Brisbane, says:
“He’s chased quality all his life.”
Mildara has long been famous for its
sherries and brandies, and these re-
main the real reason-for-being of the
company. But in the late ’4os and early
’sos they decided to market a quality
red and, since the local Mildura area
was not suitable for its production,
they had to look elsewhere. Ron
Haselgrove believed in blending;
blending of both different grapes and
different regions; blending that would
result in consistency of style and
quality. Through the years he has
stuck to this, ably abetted by Syd
Wells, his son, Richard Haselgrove, and
Les Ekert. Since 1955, to ensure sup-
plies from Coonawarra and having
great faith in that area and its future,
he has masterminded the development
there of the Mildara winery and vine-
yards. The result of this effort has
been the beautifully packaged Cabernet
Shiraz Bin . . .
Recently I had the chance to taste
the range of bottling from the early
days to the all but present. At Ren-
mark Hotel some weeks ago, I had
found with some friends a small cache
of matured reds, several of them older
vintages. We got them into our hot
little hands as fast as we could. To a
dedicated wine man such as myself
finding an old cellar containing old
wine is one of the greatest of all thrills,
doubled and tripled when you learn
that they are available. Anyway, to
these we added the fruits of a con-
tinued search around local cellars from
which we begged, borrowed, or bludged
bottles.
Came the magic tasting day. A
friend’s cellar, candles alight, anticipa-
ting eyes, shining glassware, and a great
long row that contained all the Mildara
bottlings but one. Since some of the
later vintages are still around, I
thought I would run over my tasting
notes for you.
The Bin 32, vintaged in 1963, from
Shiraz grown in Coonawarra, Southern
Vales, and the Hunter, with Southern
Vales Cabernet added, was my orig-
inal thought for wine-of-the-momth,
But as it soon would be out of supply
the 1964 blend, Bin 33, was next. The
Bin 32 is an excellent wine, of Shiraz
character with strong Cabernet and
oak overtones. The Bin 31, 1962, with
a little less Hunter in it but of the
same areas and grapes, was a slightly
more austere wine. The Bin 30, 1961,
was a fuller, softer wine with the
flavor of course more developed and
pronounced. All the above wines have
years to go.
ir pHE Bin 29, 1960, was the first wine
to show evidence of real maturation.
An intense, full nose, with bottle age
evident, strong Cabernet character,
lovely flavor and balance, a most com-
plete wine. The Bin 28, 1959, was a
slightly bigger wine, still with lovely
flavor and style, a most pronounced
bouquet, and just this hint of bigness
that some may not like. I don’t mind
it a bit. The Bin 27, 1958, another
strong Cabernet-character wine with
pronounced tannin still, a show quality
wine that will keep for years yet. We
didn’t have the Bin 26, the only one
we couldn’t find.
The older wines are not likely to
be found, so I’ll mention them only
briefly. The Bin 25, made in 1957,
didn’t seem to have the completeness
of the others though it was excellent;
the Bin 24, 1955, a very famous wine
and gold medal winner, was tops,
elegant, mature, yet still developing;
the Bin 23 lighter and rather acid. Bin
22, 1953, superb, full, and developed,
rich flavor on the tongue that you could
hold there for hours; and the Bin 21,
1951, mostly from the Southern Vales,
which was absolutely wonderful, with
one of the best bouquets I have had the
pleasure of experiencing. Some bottles
of this have not been as good, but this
one had everything!
But back to Bin 33, 1964. The 1964
vintage was affected by frost, hence
no straight bottling. They used the
material for a blend from Coonawarra
Cabernet and Shiraz, Southern Vales
Cabernet and Shiraz, and Hunter
Shiraz. And as George Fairbrother
remarked, “I have never seen a poor
bottling of this line, anyway!”


There is
** nothing
strongei
then
STEEL
is
M
1
/,
\
s
*
4
\
%
I
f
■I
c
II
\


til t
In those
32 stately floors
246,960 sq. feet
of Celdek
Steel decking
In the State Office Block in Sydney,
Lysaght Celdek plays a large part. An
unseen part. Yet it offers advantages
not found in any other flooring systems.
Celdek is a galvanized steel cellular flooring.
It cuts fixing time to a minimum,
eliminates the need for temporary props,
reduces crane and handling time. And
following trades simply “walk in and work.”
All electrical and communications wiring
is carried within the floor. This means
that office layout can be altered easily and
economically at any time —telephone and
power services can be placed at random.
Although you won’t see an inch of
Celdek when the State Office is complete.
Engineers, Architects, Tradesmen,
Technicians and Tenants will never forget
that Celdek is there. It’s a product you
can’t forget. Build it with steel, build it
with strength, build it with Celdek.
Available through structural decking
contractors.
We’ll be glad to send a senior representative
with all the facts and figures. Literature
is available. John Lysaght (Australia)
Limited, Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
lysaght
Geldek
CDl.n.


An Econo mic
Question
SHORT STORY By KAY BROWN
OUT our way at Copper Top, where
the goats and spinifex fight out
the encroaching rights on the rail
lines with the white ants, the Railways
Maintenance Inspector is a very import-
ant person; but “Old Andy” as In-
spector Andrew Vincent Anderson of
the QGR was always called —was far
more than just a mere VIP; he came
under the heading of a necessity of life.
When Mrs. Ganger-this-or-that
needed an urgent something for the
kiddie, the old man, or even the car,
out went an urgent SOS along the party
line and “Old Andy” never failed any
of them. Besides this, the men reck-
oned he totalled more successful
romances to his credit than Dan Cupid
himself would yearly. The reason being
that, in this particular Inspector’s
opinion, a married man on those outer
edges was “more settled-down like”
than any of the frisky, single young-
sters who were eternally wanting to
spend their weekends in big towns—
and in danger of losing man-hours to
Old Andy’s precious line thereby. For
the keeping ( ■( his stretch of line in
“top condition” was the sole ambition
of the old chap’s days.
Now, one of his main headaches in
the employment line was the post of
SM at the cattle trucking siding at
Copper Top itself. This post read really
well in any vacancy listings. A nice cool
house and water and wood went with
the job; but any takers who came sel-
dom stayed, and those who knew of it
didn’t put in for it when vacant.
One of the main reasons, besides its
situation on the fringe of never-
neverdom, was the work of the Postal
Department. This service and that of
the railways were mostly wedded in
those parts and usually, too, railway
blokes who’d been doing shunting work
or some such before they got trans-
fers out there just couldn’t stand the
form-filling fussiness of the PMG part
of the work.
At Coppe r Top especially, a deep
feud raged between the two depart-
ments and was fraught with some pretty
dirty accusations one to the other. Old
Andy worried a good bit about this
set-up, and then all of a sudden he
found what he reckoned would be the
ideal couple to fill the job, and he set
about convincing them that they were.
Jim Garth, merry, star footballer, and
railway worker from the Curry Yards,
had been going along happily for years
as good blokes like him do. Playing
hard, drinking merrily, and generally
enjoying life without much question-
ing. His curly fair good looks footy-
captain’s appearance (which the girls
of three adjacent townships had had
designs on for years) made him a fav-
orite, and he had never intended to
change his easy existence for that of a
benedict, either . . . not till the night
of this footy ball when he sighted Eve,
the new city stenographer from the
shire council’s office. Then all that
changed for him.
First of all he went off for a real
solid regret session with himself. Re-
gret for all the dough he’d chucked
away so carelessly instead of piling it
up into the savings account, that would
now have enabled him to make an offer
to this dream girl.
QVER a beer or two, Jim told Old
Andy his troubles, and it so touched
the old fellow to hear of Jim’s romance
(Old Andy had seen Eve himself and
reckoned it a matter for deep feeling)
that he had to give a foghorn nose-
blow that rocked the whole bar to
cover the moisture the tale brought to
his kindly old eyes.
Very quickly, the Inspector thought
of this cache at Copper Top for the
two. Instantly, he set about convinc-
ing Jim that all was not so hopeless
without savings. “Why, this place out
in the great wide grand-hearted bush
country would be the very thing . . .”
“Why, lad, it’s just tailored for you
two,” he told Jim. “Good house, free
light, water, and wood, too, and only
one train a week except in the cattle
season.” (He didn’t mention there
might be three a 'day then.) Jim
would grow into his job like all good
men, of course. “It’d be a wonderful
place, and all those grand-hearted old 1
bush folk for neighbors, too. Why,
lad, you’d be made!” (Here he lowered
his voice in the bar for Jim’s ear only.)
“If you two worked your heads right
I don’t reckon it’d cost you a penny for
scran, either.”
“Why? How?” Jim asked, interested
in such a facet of any work.
“Why? You don’t know the outback,
lad. Why, two young strangers like
you’d be right up their street out
there. Old mum this and old ma that’d
be fetching along a bit of bread or
brownie day in and day out. You’ll see,
and as for meat and veges why, I
don’t reckon any man that lives out
near them cattle blokes ever has to
worry a day where those are coming
from.”
“Go on, eh?” said Jim, enthralled,
and when Old Andy had done some
plain figuring on the back of an envel-
ope to show it all clearly, Jim hurried
off to acquaint his darling Eve of'the
new hope there was for them both
and got her agreement to marriage on
this pay-as-you-go basis.
Eve, too, was thrilled. Lovely girl that
she was, this sudden, unpredictable
thing they call love had astounded her.
After her life of carefully considering all
things, it surprised her enormously that
she should really want to start married
life on the next-to-nothing which was
all this lover of hers had in the world.
Since she did feel that inclination,
though, and since nothing seemed really
important except realising it, she was
almost more excited than Jim at those
figures of Old Andy’s, and the upshot
of that was a pretty little wedding with
Old Andy proudly giving the lovely
bride away and contentedly waiting
for the post at the Siding to be suit-
ably filled.
Jim had demurred at first about
that Postal work. He hadn’t lived in
the Curry for years without hearing
the Siding’s Saga from other dis-
gruntled railway blokes. But Old Andy
soon wiped away that worry for him.
“Oh, we’ll fix that, lad! See to it
that they let your wife be your assistant
at that part. OK with her, eh?”
“Of course,” Eve glowed. Anything
that presented the chance this job did
to Jim and her had all her willing co-
operation.
So in no time at all the bookwork
at Copper Top was got under way so
efficiently that the Postal Department
(whose staff had always previously
made nasty implications that in the
Railways Department employees did
not have to know how to read and
write) was lulled into a new admiration
for the QGR’s selectiveness. The rail-
way, whose staff had always been firmly
convinced that the PMG was the great-
est exploiter of slave labor in Christen-
dom, found with surprise that this
hitherto daft department actually made
sense occasionally. So each thought
enlightenment had come to the other


learn
to write stories
that seM
Stott’s can train you to write for
magazines, newspapers, television
and radio. Stott’s is Australia’s most
famous and respected Correspon-
dence College. You will learn the
techniques of professional freelance
writing under expert, personal
tuition from successful authors.
Enrol now. Mail the coupon for free
particulars of these high quality
home-study courses: Short story
writing, Freelance journalism, TV
script writing, Radio script writing,
Verse writing.
Stotts
TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 383
George St., Sydney. 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. 45 Gilles St., Adelaide. 1130
Hay St., Perth.
FILL IN THIS COUPON & POST NOW
Please send me free and without obligation
your Prospectus on the following course/s:
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
Age
I understand that no Sales Rep. will call.
81266
1
1
IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms —newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including . . .
The Persian Room Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque , too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel 'and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392
RESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
RH 208/66
and the old feud lay buried between
them and Old Andy’s name for wis-
dom grew.
Jim and Eve resolved or at least
Eve did —to live within a careful bud-
get, and to look forward to their plan-
ned goal of a dear little place of their
own someday! It would be down on the
coast, of course, where they’d start a
family a girl for her and a boy for
Jim. The honeymoon period over, Eve
set the office to rights and Jim and she
smilingly received their many friendly
callers. These quiet, gentle bushmen
came almost in droves, it seemed to
Eve. Shyly, they’d offer gifts to the
Garths—great quantities of beef and
vegetables such as the River Country
there abounded in and then they
would quietly sit “visiting” with Jim.
Jim loved it all. Eve did, too —at first.
It pleased her to see Jim so well liked
and so happy in his work. Then the
cattle season started in full swing and
the many trains, their crews, and the
drovers who came into the town with
the hundreds of thousands of beasts
to be trucked out all made the Garths’
days very full.
Eve soon found that these gentle
people stayed on almost indefinitely
on a visit. Morning “smoko” callers in-
variably stopped for midday dinner,
while afternoon smoko’s crop were al-
ways there for the evening meal.
Eve cooked away, happily enjoying
the feel of careless consumption of the
wonderful steaks the visitors supplied
them with so generously. That she had
so often to slip across to Maloney’s
store to get such items as tea, butter,
tinned milk, fruits, sauces, and so on
to augment the vast gifts and eke out
meals for so many began to worry her
after a bit. She tried, in those late-hour
married discussion times abed, to give
Jim some inkling of what her worries
were in that respect.
“Maloney’s accounts are awful, really,
Jim.”
Jim, however, was still fatuous and
loved all this friendliness and outback
great-heartedness. “Leave it be,” he
had admonished her, “we’ll get ahead
of it soon, you see,” and he had nodded
at their yard’s content of empty lager
bottles, none of which he’d paid for—
much!
Fame of any sort spreads marvel-
lously fast out our way, and all that
season every drover or worker of any
sort who got as far as Copper Top
Siding was determined to get two
things: some cool beer and a look at
pretty Mrs. Garth.
The postal revenue went up feverishly,
too, after Eve took up her duties. The
lovely, graceful way she tore off a stamp
or the swing of her hips as she bent
to get the postal note books out of that
dusty old office’s safe enthralled our
blokes and kept the pockets of all of
them full of dozens of stuck-together
four-cent stamps most of the time.
(Fellows would have bought other de-
nominations, too, if they had known
about them which most of them
didn’t.) As it was, the postal notes sold
for lottery tickets and the sales of
stamps at that office crept to so high
a tally that the issue for the place was
increased by the powers that be down
in Brisbane, we heard. Just tell you,
eh!
The blokes all began to take a keen
interest in things sartorial, too, and
Maloney at the store got in a real
fine line of white shirts—always the
sign of full ceremonial dress our way
—with nice fancy Maloney-style price
tags on ’em, too; but still they sold like
wildfire. Mrs. Garth, with her pretty
curled hair and city tricks with her
make-up and her radio-announcer sort
of voice, had all us locals enthralled
and nothing short of new white shirts
seemed fitting dress in which to call
on her, somehow. She was one of those
girls who made you look for the shiny
cover of a magazine somewhere behind
her—as if she could hardly be really
true, you know.
Well, things went along like that for
quite a while and then all of a sudden
Eve took the Garth family finances
into her own hands. It happened so
suddenly that there were hardly any
known details, either —strange for our
way. But, anyway, she took to Jim direct
evidently over those bills at the store.
Old Andy, while in the Curry one day
on his run, heard from the SM there
that young Garth had applied urgently
for a transfer—for “family reasons.”
JT quite broke Old Andy up. He
hurried along the line to check
the matter, feeling sure that there was
some sort of slip-up somewhere and
the thing must be a wild rumor. But
he was met by an adamant Jim. It
had to be a transfer, or else . . . Eve
had said so.
Well, Old Andy understood how Jim
must feel; but all the same he thought
it worth going over to try to remon-
strate with Eve. He was met by a very
determined girl, though. Eve had been
making her mind up for a long time
and wouldn’t swerve an inch.
“But —” wailed the stricken old chap
(he had been so sure everything was
perfect in this tiest of love and de-
partmental accuracy), “but what in the
world makes you want to go? Where’ll
you ever get a chance to save like here?
What about the family you said you
wanted? And what about all the grand
bush hospitality and, and that . . .?”
“Save!” snorted Eve (yes, that de-
lightful girl actually snorted). “Here!
Why, it would have been cheaper to
have had twins, and as for these grand
old bush customs and hospitality and
so on . . . OK, what I want to know
is, how do I get on the receiving end?
So far I’ve mostly done issuing . . .
know that?”
Old Andy sorrowed, but the Garths,
alas, left. We heard they live near
Brisbane now, where Eve has her little
place, and they got their boy and girl,
too. Things have slid back into their
old lethargy here at Copper Top. The
white shirts Maloney sold those days are
all folded away for use at the next
funeral, or wedding. But somehow
there aren’t many of either. Blokes all
seem to go right on living, and girls
well, girls like Eve, anyhow are
in short supply, worse luck!


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Filming a People’s Soul
By CHARLES HIGHAM
WE were sitting around a table at
dinner, in a Dutch restaurant in
Sydney: Jean Rouch, father of
the French New Wave and documen-
tary film-maker par excellence, Colin
Young, Hollywood correspondent for
“Sight and Sound” and head of the
department of Theatre Arts at UCLA,
the chief school for young American
directors, and Robert Gardner,
Harvard-based director of the world-
famous documentaries “Dead Birds”
and “The Hunters.” The conversation
swung to the American cinema: Jean
Rouch, incorrigibly French, said that
he thought Jerry Lewis was the one
Hollywood director of real talent. Colin
Young shuddered. “The trouble with
you,” Gardner said reprovingly, “is that
you’re High Camp . . .”
The austerity concealed behind the
sophisticated “in” joke was typical of
a five-day Unesco seminar held for
film-makers and anthropologists last
week in the airless clammy chill of an
appropriately underground theatre in
Sydney’s Commonwealth Centre. The
subject was the documentary of races,
and in addition to Rouch, Young, and
Gardner and Burton Benedict of the
Anthropology Department of London
University, there was a strong contin-
gent of Australian directors, headed
by the gifted lan Dunlop and Cecil
Holmes, whose “Three in One” repre-
sented a solitary, brave attempt at a
New Wave cinema here many years
ago. The conversation between talks
tended to centre on the conflict between
the use of the tripod—which set a
fixed distance between the subject and
the director and the free-wheeling light
cameras Rouch favored, until recently
almost unobtainable here. But nobody
seemed to be concerned with whether
the ethnographical film could be a work
of art. “The question is irrelevant,”
Colin Young snapped testily, and that,
apparently, was as far as a non-
specialist was going to be allowed to
get . . .
In his engaging opening speech, Pro-
fessor A. P. Elkin pointed out that
Australia had pioneered the field as
early as the turn of the century, and
he rightly praised Sir Baldwin Spencer’s
films of bizarre aboriginal ceremonies.
Next day we saw some: “It’s like
opening a time capsule,” Robert Gard-
ner remarked. The spiky grey figures
loped out of the side of the frame,
cutting their genitals until they bled
in a painfully observed ritual which
took place more than half a century
ago. (Gardner: “This symbolises the
male envy of the female. The men are
menstruating symbolically . . .”)
Following Elkin, Jean Rouch showed
how the modern film —likely to be shot
in the actual locations, likely to be
recorded “wild,” and intended to dis-
close a director’s personal vision of the
world as though we were roosting in his
head, sprang from the cinema du
Lumiere, from the “Baby Eats His
Soup” documentary of the turn of the
century rather than from the Melieg
tradition of illusion and fantasy, main-
spring of European and American in-
spiration for more than half a cen-
tury. Rouch and his fellow directors of
the New Wave did not want to use the
Jean Rouch
cinema as a means of dreaming, of
escape, but rather as a means of dis-
covering a personal reality. The docu-
mentary movement that fathered the
New Wave was not that of Robert
Flaherty, poet of snows and south sea
islands, but rather of Dziga-Vertov,
prose author of realist Russian-socialist
records.
Later, in a speech notable for its sup-
pressed intensity and air of dedication,
Robert Gardner explicity condemned
Flaherty for faking his famous films
“Nanook of the North,” “Moana,” and
“Man of Aran,” by staging events
which the natives had not taken part
in for a decade or more. Flaherty, once
the darling of the cineastes didn’t, it
seemed, count any more, and later,
when we saw Gardner’s own celebrated
documentary “Dead Birds,” shot in the
highlands of West Irian, it was easy to
see, in its ferocious realist record of the
slaughtering of pigs, the battles of lean,
grey figures in steamy grasses, the
ritual immolation of a dead child, and
the sudden close up of a lizard’s an-
cient face or a spear being prised from
a bleeding boy’s thigh, a decisive re-
jection of Flaherty’s romantic ideals.
Hors de concours, over lunch on the
second day, Jean Rouch, whose career
stretches from West African docu-
mentaries in the ’forties to the famous
“Chronique d’un Ete” and an episode
in the omnibus post-New Wave film
“Paris vu Par,” disclosed how his own
techniques of using an unusually mobile
synchro-sound camera among native
tribes had combined with the inspira-
tion given the Parisian critics of the
polemical magazine “Cahiers du
Cinema” by Rossellini in the ’fifties to
bring about the birth of the New Wave.
“Jean-Luc Godard, for instance, is a
Swiss ethnographer making films in
Paris,” Rouch said; and one suddenly
saw the New Wave’s reality for the
first time: an observation of the French
race, by a team of anthropologists . . .
Robert Gardner
“The demand for a new cinema came
from the young people in France. They
threw away the old values they
wanted new music, new fiction . . . the
novel is dead in France. Now, the
novelists, Robbe-Grillet and the others,
are writing, not novels in the old sense,
but scenarios. The film is immediately
exciting, and films today are made for
today.” But weren’t they, I couldn’t
resist asking, once made for keeps?
“Not possible now. Nobody knows if
there is a future ahead of us of 20 or
30 years. But this cinema of today is
exciting. And there is an international
underground of young people that takes
up all these new films, music forms,
and ideas simultaneously, faster than
Telstar. Young people in Africa like
the same things young people in Paris
do, and the girls in Sydney wear ex-
actly the same clothes I saw in Paris


do, and the girls in Sydney wear exactly
the same clothes I saw in Paris three
days ago. So we are hoping to make
films for that underground.
“And about it. My film ‘The Widows
of Fifteen Years of Age,’ for example.
“Two young ladies of 15 suddenly
announce that their husbands, their
families did not exist . . . and just
walk out on everything. That is so
common in France. The young people
make their own .money, smuggling if
necessary. The New Wave expresses
their restlessness, and their rejection
of fixed values.”
A system of aids to production by
the French Government, and a satis-
factory art theatre outlet system (art
theatres approved by the Government
were free of ticket tax) meant, Rouch
said, that the French film-maker today
could reach his audience of young, free-
wheeling people outside the “official”
circuits. This gave the kind of con-
fidence needed; and Godard’s films, for
instance, had frequently been financed
by his own previous work, which had
succeeded widely, commercially. Six
film programs a day at the Cinema-
theque, the Paris film museum, were
packed solid with students who had
a passionate desire to see the cinema
of today and yesterday ... I asked
Rouch what he thought of the con-
temporary British cinema.
“J THINK it is very sad ... in the
’fifties, there were those marvellous
documentary films, ‘O Dreamland’ and
‘Momma Don’t Allow . . .’ In a sense,
the British New Wave came first, be-
cause those British directors went out
to the subject with hand-held cameras,
and showed Britain as it is. And now
that Britain is so poor, she should be
doing great things. Rich countries do
nothing, because they are rich, America,
Australia . . . but Britain has sold out
its industry to America, and that is a
terrible tragedy. Now they only make
American films —Bond, the others —in
Britain because it’s cheaper there, and
they get the Eady Plan. Lindsay Ander-
son’s ‘This Sporting Life’ was wonder-
ful, but it was made years ago . . .”
Perhaps the best thing about making
films in Paris was that you were part
of a commune of artists; that he could,
for instance, show a new uncut film to
Chris Marker, another famous director,
and ask his views. Rouch’s face glowed
with confidence; and one understood
why French film-makers are the envy
of unhappy Hollywood artists, trapped
in their well-groomed suburbs, and of
British directors working for Hollywood
tycoons. Even as we walked back to
the dreaded Commonwealth Centre for
another bout of race culture, Rouch
was peering into the faces of the people,
the confusion of buildings and drill-
rattling building sites. “We must create
this city for the world,” he said in
French, and one was, finally, reminded
of an earlier remark someone had made
during the Seminar. “The ethno-
graphic film is the picture of a race’s
soul.”
LETTER FROM YORK
Worthy of the Minster
MY tour of the English festivals has
now taken me to York, where
this city, maintaining its centuries-
old tradition, stages the medieval
Mystery Plays every three years. These
plays form the permanent core of the
York Festival; directly and in various
less obvious ways, these productions in-
volve nearly 1000 of York’s inhabitants.
They take place out-of-doors in the
near-perfect setting of St. Mary’s Abbey
ruins; thanks to an uncommonly dry
season, not one performance had to be
cancelled this year because of rain.
The Mystery Plays have been going on
for some 600 years and so, I was happy
to observe, his much else in Yorkshire’s
beautiful and prosperous capital.
Other aspects of the triennial Festival
and of York’s cultural life are less well
known. The Festival, the one of 1966
at any rate, has much else to offer, most
notably in music. Among artists par-
ticipating this year were Hans Schmidt-
Isserstedt, Kim Borg, the London
Symphony Orchestra, the New Philhar-
monia and the English Chamber Or-
chestra, Norbert Brainin and Peter
Schidlof as duettists, Rudolf Scharwz,
April Cantelo, Norman del Mar, the
Vienna Soloists, Czech Chamber Or-
chestra, Isaac Stern, the Melos En-
semble, Tatria, Amadeus, and Smetana
Quartets, George Malcolmn, Elaine
Shaffer, and Anton Heiller—to name
only those whose names are most
familiar to music-lovers outside Britain.
Unlike some other Festivals, the one
at York is concentrated into a small
area and the main venues are all within
two or three minutes’ walking distance;
this is as well, because, as often hap-
pens in old cities, it is amazingly easy
to lose one’s way, even within 200
yards of the Minster.
A recital by the Smetana Quartet —
also attended by Sydney’s Professor of
Music, Donald Peart —confirmed pre-
vious impressions of this group’s stan-
dard, making them probably the world’s
finest living string quartet. In the
Guildhall, which seats about 450 (and
which, to my amazement, was not com-
pletely filled), they played Haydn’s D
major “Lark,” Jatiacek’s Ist quartet,
and Beethoven’s op. 130 and 133. In
a hall of agreeable acoustics and play-
ing from memory, as is their custom,
the four members of this great ensemble
proved themselves once again as evenly
matchless, playing as one and perfectly
in tune with each other in every sense
of the term.
The Haydn quartet was played as
well as I have ever heard it, and each
lovely line in its score was fully real-
ised. The Janacek work, still far from
everyday fare, is the uttering of a soul
oppressed by sadness, resignation, and
the awareness of man’s innate cruelty.
Allowing for some rhapsodic elements
in the first movement, the performance
as a whole was deeply moving and
appeared to have rather a shattering
effect on many in the audience who,
unfamilar with Janacek, had come un-
prepared for so probing an experi-
ence. The performance of the great
Beethoven work was the proof absolute
of the Smetana’s artistic stature. I
was indeed happy to be told by the
players that they will again visit Aus-
tralia within a year or so.
My second concert took place in the
Minster proper. In keeping with the
Festival’s policy of encouraging living
musicians (a number of new works
had already been performed), the New
Philharmonia presented a very ambiti-
ous program. They were conducted
by Norman del Mar, an English con-
ductor known to me only from a few
recordings, who has now earned my un-
bounded respect, and opened with the
English premiere of “Pastorals,” a
single-movement work by Alexander
Goehr. The composer is one of many
about whom we know hardly anything
in Australia; the .music was commis-
sioned by the West German Radio and
in writing it Goehr used, on his own
admission, material connected with the
incidental music for two “Oedipus”
plays which he was working on at the
same time in 1965. It is scored for alto
flute, clarinet in C, large groups of
violins and cellos, and a fine assortment
of brass and percussion. The com-
poser’s program note describes it as
designed “principally as a virtuoso work
for brass.” It emerged as a work of
considerable inventiveness, displaying
some novel and exciting instrumental
colorings and, in a way not easily
defined, of an elemental nature not un-
like that of Sculthorpe’s “Sun Music
I,” which was composed at about the
same time last year.
After interval, the orchestra gave
us Mahler’s Ist symphony, in one of
the most highly charged and imagina-
tive readings of this work, which is one
of my favorites. The Minster’s
acoustics, apart from resounding echoes
in the fortissimi, were not unfavorable
to the music; the orchestra’s sound was
very fine and restored my faith in the
New Philharmonia, now a co-operative
ensemble on the pattern of the LSO
and including, incidentally, among its
members lan Wilson, formerly of the
SSO, as principal oboist. The
orchestra, although compelled to spread
out across the width of the nave, with
little depth and no platforms at their
disposal, was quite excellent and worthy
of any Festival as it was worthy of
the Minster, which, in its 700 years,
cannot have resounded to many
occasions of greater felicity, musically
speaking.
PAUL FROLICH.


THEATRE
American Gothic
Moon for the Misbegotten. O’Neill. Old
Tote Company, Russell Street, Mel-
bourne.
Oliver. Bart. Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
J>EFORE the' play begins we can see
the unlit set brooding on the stage
the familiar decaying farmhouse of
so many obsessive American dramas.
Then the lights come up, and Robin
Lovejoy has his cast bounding and
whooping about like the denizens of
Dogpatch. Can this be the w'orld of
O’Neill? The heroine, Josie Hogan, is
a female Li’l Abner, a six-foot, barefoot,
club-swinging, loud-mouthed Amazon.
Her father, Phil, is a cussin’, ornery,
red-faced, red-haired, boozy little Irish-
man, and for the entire first act they
brawl together with embarrassingly
forced hilarity.
But this is a frivolous storm before
the awesome lull. What follows is an
interminable and extraordinary love
scene between Josie and her landlord,
a tormented alcoholic, in which motiva-
tions are so complex and chaotic that
they go to the brink of madness. O’Neill
writes American Gothic, as opposed to
Tennessee Williams’ Baroque, and it
is powerful stuff. The, girl, who has
boasted an uninhibited sex life, is re-
vealed as a tremulous virgin. Early in
the play, Tyrone’s reverent praise for
Josie’s breasts makes one suspect that
he wants a substitute mother rather
than a lover, but O’Neill is not content
to merely imply such relationships. He
makes them absolutely explicit, and
even then continues to nag at each point
in long, overwhelmingly emotional
speeches. These date the play heavily
throughout it seems much older than
its 19 years. But the writing has a
grandeur to it and a depth of feeling
that makes Williams’ work in the same
area seem hysteric and shallow by com-
parison.
Tom Farley successfully tackles the
sympathetic role of the Irish father
along familiar leprachaun lines.
Jacqueline Kott plays the gawky, trans-
cendental Josie in a wavery accent,
but with impressive emotional certainty.
But Ron Haddrick’s performance as
Tyrone is mystifying. O’Neill had
trouble with this character based on
his own brother. While Tyrone’s anguish
is clearly genuine, is there perhaps a
large component of self-pitying theatri-
calism? Haddick must believe so,
because he makes the character’s con-
fessional outpouring sound glib and
spurious.
“Moon for the Misbegotten” seems
to have got out of O’Neill’s control,
and Lovejoy has chosen to produce the
play with all stops out. Another pro-
ducer might have attempted to correct
O’Neill’ s overwriting with underplaying.
And this, I think, would have been the
wiser course.
In the long years since Gilbert and
Sullivan, the British musical had been,
at best, an inept counterfeit of U.S.
originals. Remember those disastrous
English musical films of the ’4os and
’sos that looked as if they’d been shot
in the ’2os or ’3os? With orchestra-
tions and choreography as effervescent
as Yorkshire pudding? Then, not con-
tent wdth their “Oklahomas” and
“South Pacifies,” Americans started
taking their librettos from hallowed
British originals, Cole Porter stealing
“The Taming of the Shrew” and
Lerner and Loew'e kidnapping “Pyg-
malion.” Obviously Dickens would be
next to go, so Lionel Bart stepped in
and wrote “Oliver.” Bart simplified
Dickens’ heart-rending plot, replacing
the antique social criticism with lash-
ings of extra sentiment. His music was
largely basic Broadway, but the best
songs had something ethnic about them
—taking their idiom from the music
hall or the cries of street vendors. And
the result was a seven-year run in
London and now' a second Australian
production.
JCW’s have retained Sean Kenny’s
original set a remarkable heap of
stairw'ays, nooks, and crannies mounted
on a revolve, and Richard Wordsworth
hasn’t made any major production
changes. It was the first opening of a
musical I've seen for a long time where
everything worked. But for all its
smoothness the production w'as lacking-
in spirit. While Toni Lamond did a
full-bodied job as Nancy, and Terry
McDermott was a bully Bill Sykes,
Ormonde Douglas was frail as Mr.
Bumble, and Wordsw'orth’s spring-
cleaned Fagin wasn’t nasty enough by
half. Shane Meredith stole his scenes
most efficiently as Oliver.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Fact and Fantasy
The Killing of Sister George. Frank
Marcus. Union Theatre Repertory
Company, of Melbourne. Old Tote,
Sydney.
The Shadow of a Gunman. O’Casey.
Ensemble, Sydney.
SISTER GEORGE, a District Nurse,
is a character in a BBC radio
serial about life in the village of
Applehurst, which has been running
for six years. (This makes it a mere
child beside “Blue Hills.”) The
listeners, unwilling, or unable, to dis-
tinguish between life and literature, in-
sist on treating Applehurst and its char-
acters as though they really exist.
They are not alone in this, for June
Buckridge, the actress who plays Sister
George, has carried the Stanislavsky
method to the extreme that she has
almost become the character she im-
personates. It is therefore not surpris-
ing that when she begins to suspect her
impending fictional demise “George”
becomes an insomniac clutching a bottle
of gin. So much for Stanislavsky.
The simplicities of Applehurst wfith
its stock characters and village realism
and the absurdities arising from the
confusion of fact and fiction are comic
to the sophisticated, but the joke wears
thin before the end of three acts. The
dramatist makes sure that everyone wall
know that this is a sophisticated play
by throwing in a lesbian relationship
between George and her flatmate, Chil-
die. This is not treated seriously and
has no relevance to the send-up of the
soap-opera, but I suppose it ensures
that no one could describe this as “a
w'holesome comedy.” Still, it is not
really unw'holesome, merely somewhat
tedious.
Bunney Brooke gives a suitably quirky
performance in the central roles, both
as Sister George and June Buckridge.
In “Shadow of a Gunman,” also,
there is some confusion between fact and
fantasy. It is set in Dublin in the
troubled days of 1920. There is a
nightly curfew and constant raiding of
houses by the Black and Tans in search
of rebel arms. In this feverish atmos-
phere, the poet Donal Davoren, who
has recently moved into the tenement
to share a room with his friend Shields,
is mistaken by the other tenants for a
gunman on the run. When he sees
that this makes him a hero to pretty
Minnie Pow'ell, Davoren decides not to
dispel the illusion.
His honorary status as a man of
violence involves him in listening to a
lot of fiery patriotic speeches and an
extraordinary letter by Mr. Gallogher
to the Irish Republican Army request-
ing that they straighten up his rowdy
neighbors, the tenants in the back
drawing-room. It is absurd and Donal
Davoren cannot take it seriously, nor
does he wash to be involved. Too late
he learns that he cannot choose.
“Shadow of a Gunman” is a difficult
play to produce because the comedy in
the first act does not seem to be lead-
ing anyw'here in particular, and cer-
tainly not toward the tragic climax in
the second act, which therefore seems
melodramatic. A play like this needs
inspired production and acting to hide
the flaws in its construction. James
Upshaw’s production has not solved the
problem of the first act, but it improves
in the second act when the tension in
the play increases.
Don Reid gives a sensitive perfor-
mance as Donal Davoren, though it is
a little \understated. Lorraine Bayley
is enchanting as Minnie and Kenneth
Laird is very polished as the bibulous
Orangeman, Mr. Grigson.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Empty Cell
The Cell. Robert Wales. Sheridan,
Adelaide.
THE way Australian producers react
to new Australian plays is becom-
ing increasingly easy to predict: they
produce them, any of them, nearly all
of them. They do this often with a
clear understanding of the play’s defici-
encies, and if it so happens that it is
considered by the audience to be inept,


FIRST N.S.W. INTERNATIONAL
FILM FESTIVAL AUGUST 12th t» 22nd
FESTIVAL MEMBERSHIP $7.50
Enquiries to Secretary, I.F.F. Committee, Box 3488, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
Phone 27-3470. A,H. 78-8798. 250 a George Street, Sydney,
dull, or laughable they will blandly
complain that audiences are not yet
ready for the Australian product. Those
few theatregoers who do attend bad
Australian plays consciously are
usually cultural republicans or people
honestly interested in seeing how our
playwrights are shaping up. This latter
group expect to sit through perhaps
years of laborious plots and strained
productions, knowing that the whole
process will go on until, finally, a play-
wright w'ho can maintain a consistently
good standard appears and effects a
comparison. I still believe, however,
that in any number of fields w'e suffer
from Duttonism: if it’s Australian it’s
sure to be nearly good—don’t ask ques-
tions—be understanding.
I suspect “The Cell” was produced
in Adelaide because it appeared from
Sydney reports to be a money-maker,
a bread-and-butter play. For Jean
Marshall, its Adelaide producer, it was
perhaps artistically acceptable because
Australian. Her production is compe-
tent and her cast capable to a certain
degree, so that the overall presentation
had a general solidity. But I don’t
think it is anyw'here near a good, solid
play for any number of cardinal
reasons.
The central conflict between the
authoritarian Mother Denis and the
gentle, troubled, kindly, progressive
Sister Catherine is presented in the most
basic black and white, good versus bad,
terms. Unfortunately, one can never
quite believe in Mother Denis’ badness,
for she acts w'ithin the bounds of her
authority and is naturally upset by the
convent’s dependence on Sister Cather-
ine. When Sister Leonora is ordered
to remove a nesting bird from her cell
by Mother Denis, Sister Catherine takes
Leonora’s place and kills the bird, while
Mother Denis simultaneously suffers a
fatal heart attack. This point of the
action introduces a host of theological
problems w'hich, fortunately perhaps,
w'ere not touched on by the playwright.
One had to feel sorry for the Reverend
Mother; she really had the w'orst of
both worlds.
Carmel Millhouse played Sister
Catherine, and it w'as the strongest per-
formance. She of all the cast felt that
there should have been something more
to her character than speaking quiet
lines.
ROBERT WARD
MUSIC
Two out of Three
Suk Trio, minus one. Musica Viva.
Town Hall, Sydney.
Absenteeism normally speiis
disaster for such a small cham-
*■ ber group as the Suk Trio. But
to our delight we found that, after
only a day’s preparation, leader Josef
Suk and his pianist, Jan Panenka,
could substitute a program of violin
sonatas when ’cellist Josef Chuchro was
in bed with influenza. This unexpected
change brought a welcome freshness
to the Musica Viva recitals a series
which has too long basked in the
comforting security of Classical, Roman-
tic, and “inoffensive” Contemporary
programming.
Immediately impressive in Suk’s
playing is the freedom and strength
of his bow' arm. Long, full strokes
produce a tone which is deep and
mellow without the customary shriek-
ing brilliance in the upper register.
His spiccato control is correspondingly
good, and it w'as an illumination to
hear the chamber musician’s atten-
tion to detail transported into vir-
tuoso sonata. This meticulous care
was evident in the Presto finale of the
Beethoven Sonata in A major, 0p.47
(the Kreutzer), where the rapid quaver
passages remained precise and melo-
dious, even under the pressure of ex-
treme teynpi in the coda.
The performance of the Kreutzer
was the most exciting section of the
program, if not the most technically
accomplished. During the complex
andante con variazioni, Suk and
Panenka’s lack of regular practice as
a sonata team showed itself in slight
misunderstandings as to the flexibility
of time and phrasing in the four varia-
tions. The opening Adagio and Presto
movement was, however, an excellent
and vigorous demonstration of the
beauties of Beethoven’s middle period
sonata style.
Cesar Frank’s Violin Sonata (also
in A major) is a test not so much
from a technical aspect as of the
soloist’s ability to sustain interest. As
is the case with most of Frank’s music,
the sonata has but one theme, this
being re-organised and represented in
a process easily likened to the inner
w'orkings of a slush pump. Suk seized
upon the saving features of the work
imaginative texture and wide
dynamic range and painstakingly
moulded them into an elaborate justi-
fication of its major shortcomings.
For the traditional nationalistic ges-
ture which seems to open the recital
of every visiting chamber group, Suk
chose the Dvorak Sonatina in G major.
Simple and too easily effective, this
is a work more at home in the annual
eisteddfod than on the concert plat-
form.
DAVID SALTER
FILMS
Over-Sensitive
Girl With Green Eyes. Director, Des-
mond Davis.
Flight of the Phoenix. Director, Robert
Aldrich.
FILMS dealing with youth or
adolescence, in w hich nothing much
happens except for close-ups of the
main character soaring glumly into
space, frequently earn the critical
adjective “sensitive.” “Girl With Green
Fayes’ 5 is a prize example—it’s a slight
film, sometimes a hit of a bore, but
it’s as sensitive as all get out.
Based on an Edna O’Brien novel,
it traces the uneasy progress of a love-
affair between a dreamy Irish girl and
a disillusioned writer much older than
herself. Desmond Davis, a cameraman
turned director, treats the story in a
subdued, excessively gentlemanly way,
evidently determined to avoid any hint
of sensationalism. As might be ex-
pected, the photography is expert, but,
like the direction, curiously unexciting.
At the end I was left discontentedly
seeking answers to such questions as
why did the writer settle in the Irish
countryside in the first place? Why
do the girl’s relatives, after creating
a terrible scene about her love-affair,
suddenly disappear and cause no further
trouble?
The acting, however, is intelligent and
interesting. Rita Tushingham’s perform-
ance, good as it is, can’t disguise the
fact that Kate is a maddening creature.
Peter Finch gives an impressive study
of the man falling in love against his
better judgment, with his genuine affec-
tion being gradually mastered by his
growing exasperation and boredom.
The film’s liveliest moments are pro-
vided by Lynn Redgrave,
A ruthless pair of scissors, particularly
in the early scenes, w'ould have been
a great help to “Flight of the
Phoenix,” an overlong adventure film
which in its later sequences develops
genuine excitement. The story of a
planeload of men stranded in the
desert after a crash, the movie spends
far too long establishing the characters
and their interrelationships before get-
ting on to its real business—their de-
cision to try to rebuild the damaged
aircraft and fiy it to safety. With the
exception of James Stewart, w'ho over-
acts the crudely over-written role of
the oafish pilot, the acting is remark-
ably strong. Hardy Kruger is very
entertaining as the maddening Teuton
w'ho dragoons the men into reassem-
bling the plane.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


BOOKS
Isherwood in America
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Exhumations. Christopher Isherwood.
Methuen. $5.10.
IT was late in the evening, in a Holly-
wood French restaurant plastered
all over with advertisements like
a Paris urinal. In what appeared to
be a horse-stall, we had been eating
to the tune of old French gramophone
records played over an ear-threatening
loudspeaker system: we might have
been in the Metro. We had talked
about the despoliation of the old sur-
roundings of Los Angeles, the destruc-
tion of the beautiful forests, w'here wolf
and coyote used to roam, the bull-
dozing away of the monstrous sand-
hills that flank L.A.’s glittering centre
like sentries. On top of every hill the
ramshackle luxury homes of the stars
and directors teeter, and with rain they
are apt to slide down into the valley
in a simoom of blowing sand. Fire, too,
threatens them, sweeping down through
the imported Australian gum trees
which burst into fla,me like bracken.
Isherwood said to me suddenly: “Of
course, all this will be consumed with
fire in a few years. The enemy will
bomb this coast, and a great storm
of fire will rush down it, snapping us
all up. There will be nothing left.”
He said it calmly; the brown mis-
chievous face did not darken. One
was reminded of his friend Aldous
Huxley, who saw the flames eat away
the last of his splendid home in Holly-
wood, destroying the collected books
of a lifetime of learning, and simply
drove off with his wife without a back-
ward look. The philosophy of non-
attachment, at once discussed and
demonstrated in Isherwood’s collected
essays “Exhumations,” is a creed of
great beauty; it can seldo,m have been
put to a harder test.
The whole tone of Isherwood’s book
is, as one might expect after meeting
him, modest, touching, and kind. His
vision sweeps the cobwebs from the
mind; his prose, balanced and con-
trolled, reflects an orderly intelligence
which never becomes smooth or re-
actionary. He is—and one can offer
him no higher praise—entirely of this
century while at no moment succum-
bing to its muddle and brutality. Most
artjsts have reflected disorder, escaped
into cold cynicism, or retreated into the
literature of the past. Isherwood knows
and consumes it all, but he has re-
mained calm above his hurt.
Book reviews seldom bear re-reading
years afterwards, but Isherwood’s stand
up marvellously. His discussion of “The
Grapes of Wrath” has far more strength
than any of the quasi-sociological pieces
written about it in its day, because
Isherwood can set the book against
the reality of California as he knows
it. He quietly demolishes the old
fallacy about “California as the
promised land,” so often used as a
specious contrast with our own thrust-
ing into nothing. The immigrants from
the Dust Bowls, he reminds us, became
actors in the classical tragedy of Cali-
fornia; “for El Dorado is tragic, like
Palestine, like every other promised
land. After the Land Rush, the Gold
Rush, the Movie Rush, comes the Fruit
Rush.” The farmers believed the hand-
bills that promised them work in El
Dorado; they swarmed to their goal;
but the fruit-picking was overcrowded,
the season short; w'ages were down to
starvation level. Isherwood rightly
praises Steinbeck for his realistic evoca-
tion of this horrific story, but he also
exposes him for hectoring too much;
the characters are so,metimes used as
mouthpieces of ideas, and when they
are they do not fully live.
Isherw'ood himself, of course, is bles-
sedly free of sermons; his own realism
is unflawed by preaching. His fine-
ness as a critic—and it is a fineness
insufficiently realised springs from
his ability to look squarely at a work
without twisting it to suit some pre-
conceived argument. He can evoke the
physical “feel” of Baudelaire, Ford
Madox Ford, or Stevenson (whom he
discusses with particular skill) and
suggest their ideas without imposing
on them his own vision.
The volume’s centre is made up of
pieces on Vedanta, which first drew'
Isherwood to California in 1939.
Gerald Heard and Aldous Huxley had
already settled there and were study-
ing Vedanta in the company of the
Hindu monk Swami Prabhavananda.
One sees the appeal of Vedanta—the
purpose of which is the loss of self, the
achievement of that divine detachment
by which one can reach union with
divine nature —to a temperament like
Isherwood’s. His selflessness and cool,
precise observation drew him to a series
of tenets which would involve the
final immolation of the self, absorp-
tion into divinity. It is an idea which
also attracted Maugham, and became
the theme of “The Razor’s Edge”;
Isherwood here discusses that book
with rare sympathy, reminding us that
the central character of Larry Darrell
is said to have been suggested by Isher-
wood himself.
Just as sympathy and calmness com-
bine in Isherwood’s study of Vedanta,
so they illuminate his study of Vir-
ginia Woolf, with her temples’ “egg-
shell fragility,” and of Ernst Toller,
observed with a witty but not malicious
sharpness. But my favorite essays in
the book are those dealing with Isher-
wood’s own discovered world: the coast
of California, also brought to life in
his brilliant novel “Down There on a
Visit.” The remoteness of the wild
valleys, the still sunshine and evenings
subtle with mist, occupied by a smugly
opulent middle-class population, can
only seem familiar to us here, and many
of Isherwood’s descriptions have a deep
regional meaning for us. He creates
with intoxicating brilliance the atmos-
phere of deserted amusement piers,
collapsing waterfronts, and Venice, the
imitation of the Italian capital built
in the southern part of Santa
Monica; one sees at once the influence
on Gavin Lambert, whose book of Cali-
fornian studies, “The Slide Area,” adds
a more acid touch to the scenes origin-
ally sketched by the master. Isher-
wood has the advantage of a foreigner’s
eye, and he is free of local prejudices,
passions, and involvements. Perhaps
only he—or someone who has success-
fully absorbed his manner—can convey
the seedy glamor of our own beach
areas, with their glum brown houses
marching down to a dazzle of sea and
bone-white sand.
Is the Devil Dead?
By DEN-N IS PRYOR
The Challenge—ls the Church Obsolete?
Edited by Ivan Southall. Lansdowne.
* '
FOR a sizable part of my boyhood
I sang evensong six days a week.
For me the Church meant sun-
light through stained glass, the knobbly
feel of carved oak choir stalls (stalls,
for were we not lambs of God?), and
that curious, evocative, fluting noise
of boy choristers imitating soprano
owls to the greater glory of the Book
of Common Prayer. The Church
meant ruffs, surplices, hassocks, and
cassocks (we were too low church for
it, but I lusted for a red cassock),
and the cultured adenoids of minor
canons with a rugger blue and a third
class in theology from Oxford.
This ecclesiastical nostalgia had
always seemed harmless, even faintly
virtuous. One was aware that the Rev.
Ted Noffs had exchanged the cassock
for the reefer jacket, and that other
tough-bottomed clerics had discarded
the alb for the leather jacket, and
Elijah’s chariot for a Jehu motor-
cycle. But this sort of thing belonged
in the popular Press. It had not, one
thought, disturbed the quiet of the


vicarage, the manse, the presbytery, or
the cathedral close. It has.
Sarah Bernhardt was once asked her
opinion of the Ten Commandments.
Predictably, she said they were too
many. Now “The Challenge” has in-
troduced an eleventh commandment—
Thou Shalt Not Commit Nostalgia.
In February, 1965, a National
Christian Strategy Consultation was
held in the University of Sydney. The
“strategy”' of the title suggests Salva-
tion Army Manoeuvres, while the
“Consultation” has a medical or
psychiatric air to it, but then forum
might have sounded too Roman (for
this was basically a Protestant theo-
logabfest), and symposium might have
worried the wowsers.
“The Challenge” is a selection of
some of the papers delivered at the
consultation. Ivan Southall appears to
have given up the task of editing them
into anything resembling a book. Chap-
ter 1, for example, quotes a whole
paragraph from chapter 2, and there
are constant overlaps between contri-
butors. What one gets is the sort of
thing which a resentful postman heaves
on the lawn in cyclostyled form eight
months after a conference and is put
in a cupboard until the next spring-
clean. The concept of the book is a
rare - combination of innocence and
megalomania. Contributors have been
recruited from the widest range of
disciplines demographers, social
workers, sociologists, political scien-
tists, mathematicians, economists, evan-
gelists, and what not. They are given
seven or eight pages to discuss issues
of enormous complexity. The com-
bination of these talents is then sup-
posed to produce a “unique attempt
to examine the position occupied by
the Church in a modern technological
society and to suggest a strategy for
the revision of outmoded attitudes and
future engagement.”
ir pHE Honest-to-God debate is briefly
mentioned early on in the book, but
no attempt is made to give a strategic
answer to the Is-God-dead debate (isn’t
it time someone started an Is-the-
Church-becoming-a-debating-society de-
bate?). In a sense the answer to the
Is-God-dead question may be implicit,
for one misses many old friends. The
saints have disappeared and the devil
is certainly dead, killed off by the
wordy apathy of the modernists. He
puts in a brief appearance in a chapter
entitled “The Rim of Hell,” where Dr.
Coulson, writing from Oxford, that bas-
tion of nostalgia, remarks that “if this
world does not belong to God, it must
belong to the devil in the end.” It is
heartening to know that the devil still
has a job to do among Oxford mathe-
maticians.
It is clear that a passionate desire
beats under all these clerical collars to
escape from the past. This is difficult
enough for those with a sense of his-
tory. The long sex-hating tradition of
early Christianity, further case-hardened
by puritanism, and the sheer corruption
of the Church when it possessed secular
power must make its ministers anxious
to look forward rather than back.
Ivan Southall boldly states that the
Church is “fairly widely acknowledged
as a primary force for good in human
history.” There is still hope for the sur-
vival of the Church if people can still
believe this sort of thing, and if it can
be dressed in really modern gear (Mary
Quant vestments would pack them in).
The best chapters come from the
social scientists. Arthur Burns has a
tightly written chapter on “The Hard
Reality of World Affairs.” He makes no
reference to the role of the Churches,
but ends with just the kind of statement
which the consultation needed and so
seldom got: “The problem is not to
proclaim one of the accepted views
against another, not, for example, to
advocate ‘friendship and aid’ against
‘power politics’ or vice versa, but to
develop new pictures of the world which
will make visible its new features.”
J. J. Mol has two chapters, “A Chris-
tian Strategy” and “Pride and Pre-
judice in Denominational Divisions,”
and they are the best things in the book.
He makes plain that if one is to have a
strategy one must appraise one’s own
position realistically. He then sets about
the appraisal, showing, for example, the
weakness of the Protestant churches by
comparison with the Catholic. He indi-
cates the reason for the Protestant
angst about the nature of their job by
statements such as: “It is not accidental
that precisely in those denominations
which can rely on a loyal membership
the concern with function and relevance
is less acute.” He even points the need
for the Organisation Man in the church.
By the time I was halfway through
“The Challenge” a terrible thought
struck me that, apart from a few
chapters, the whole thing might be an
elaborate satire. When the penultimate
chapter of a most unreadable volume is
entitled “Come Sweet Death,” the sus-
picion gradually forms that one might
be having one’s leg pulled. H. L.
Westerman’s “The Australian City of
To,morrow” has passages which might
have been written for “Beyond the
Fringe.” This is part of what he calls
his Vision of Despair: “A city of
noise . . . There is no birdsong,
no tranquillity.” This he contrasts with
his Bunyanesquely titled City of Hope:
“It is cricket in the paddock, good
morning to the postman, schooners at
the pub, milk shakes at the deli, tea
with the neighbors, fellowship at the
Church.”
If Lansdowne Press has not already
sold the rights, somebody could make
a Philip Street sketch out of parts of
“The Church and Youth.” “Camping
provides one of the most promising
settings for encounter with young
people unrelated to the Church.”
The book is useful as a guide to the
latest ecclesiastical hurrah-words. Here
is a short course in semantic name-
dropping: dialogue, dynamism, insight,
outreach, disruptive force (equals sin),
structures. In case any of you still use
that rough-textured word fornication
the new version is “the disjunction of
the sexual act from a context of rigid
social responsibilities.”
End of the Season
In any hotel courtyard one may watch
some tourist group at lunch
dazzled by their tablecloth, their wine,
familiar boredom
slowly taking shape in foreign light.
A waster idles past the villas
where aged Englishwomen
recline on ottomans of basketwork
their lemonade at elbow
condemning sloth from tasselled canopies.
Soon the esplanade will be deserted;
some hag take winter flight
from bar to shop and shop to bar
the gale among her skirts;
breakers toss iron beads across the seawall.
Summer bears the burden of much hope;
few, in other seasons,
can stand alone and brave the streets,
the giggle, shrug, or sigh
of the timid at their cosy windowseats.
RODNEY HALL


ON SALE NOW!
Don’t Miss Reading . . .
Educations and The Missions . . David Hand
Race Relations Albert Maori Kiki
Sukarno An Appraisal . . . . Ron Witton
ALL IN THE LATEST ISSUE OF
NEW GUINEA
and Australia, The Pacific, and South-East Asia
$2.00 per annum (50 cents per copy) at your Bookstall, or from the
Distributing Agents:
THE SYDNEY & MELBOURNE PUBLISHING Co. Pty. Ltd.
29 ALBERTA STREET, SYDNEY (BOX 1813, G.P.0.).
Satyrs and Clowns
By VIVIAN SMITH
Selected Poems. Hugh McCrae. Intro-
duced by Douglas Stewart. Angus &
Robertson. $1.25.
Selected Poems. Christopher Brennan.
Introduced by A. R. Chisholm. Angus
and Robertson. $1.25.
Dre ams of a Summer Night. George
Barker. Faber. $3.05.
Collected Poems. A. R. D. Fairburn.
Pegasus Press. $1.25.
OF the few important Australian
poets of the first half of the cen-
tury only Brennan and Neilson
have survived as poets of originality.
They had something to say and they
said it in their own way. O’Dowd
and Baylebridge were only interested
in setting ideas to words that rhymed:
they w'ere not interested in language
or speech. Douglas Stewart’s gener-
ously introduced and finely chosen
selection of Hugh McCrae’s verse re-
minds us that McCrae is an artist in
a way that Baylebridge and O’Dowd
are not. McCrae has conjuring skills,
techniques, sketching abilities at his
command; he is interested in words,
shapes, patterns of sound. (It is no
accident that he should have appealed
deeply to so distinguished a poet as
Kenneth Slessor, perhaps the most com-
pletely artistic poet Australia has pro-
duced.) But has he anything more?
Did he really have anything to say?
As Stewart readily points out, Mc-
Crae is a difficult poet for a modern
reader to appreciate or to take seri-
ously. His world is not cur world.
Its furniture and decor are irremediably
dated. His world of fancy with its
satyrs, nymphs, genii, elves, witches,
mimshi maidens, columbines, pierrots,
amourettes, and fairy princes is un-
relieved by humor, irony, or pathos.
It is a world of dead and unreal things
—Kewpie dolls desperately wishing they
were marionettes; while McCrae's much
praised and much criticised ‘"vitality”
has a forced and brittle cheerfulness
hardly consistent with real vitality; in
the long run it becomes a substitute
for deep feelings of any kind.
Still, McCrae’s historical importance
in the development of Australian
poetry has to be acknowledged, although
he has been overpraised by his friends.
The much discussed and admired “I
Blew My Pipes” seems to me com-
pletely marred by its lines “tight-bellied
bacchanals/ . . . lead out and crown
with shining glass/The wine’s red baby
on the grass.” But ‘"Colombine” is
rightly remembered for its frail grace;
“Song of the Rain” wears quite well,
as do “Ambuscade” and the amusing
“The Home for Pegasi”; while “Frag-
ment” deserves to become known as
McCrae’s most serious poem.
One of the problems associated with
writing on and judging Australian poets
is the question of placing them in a
wider historical perspective. Discussion
of McCrae usually centres on Australian
subject matter; the propriety of his
satyrs and nymphs frolicking in the Aus-
tralian bush; or the influence of the
Lindsays on his work. A clearer view
could be gained if he were placed more
firmly against the poets of the ’nineties
and the Georgian poets who influenced
him. If he is seen alone, he looms larger
than he should. He is a much lesser
poet than Walter de la Mare—without
de la Mare’s intensity or individuality.
But he is as good a Georgian as J. C.
Squire. It is only through keeping such
comparisons in mind that one will come
to see McCrae in perspective.
The same problem of “placing” faces
the reader of Brennan, now issued in a
short selection edited by Professor A. R.
Chisholm. Tribute has already been
paid to Brennan’s intellectual scope and
ambition, and he is now' being seen more
clearly in the context of his period—
one of the least inspiring in English
poetry. Professor Chisholm’s handy
selection, while preserving the main
lines of Brennan’s design and making it
possible to appreciate his intentions, con-
centrates on single lyrics, the only thing
by which Brennan can now' be judged.
Generous selections are included from
“Towards the Source,” “The Forest of
Night,” and “The Wanderer” and Pro-
fessor Chisholm includes most of the late
love poems, which are among the finest
and most touching of Brennan’s works.
George Barker’s short “Dreams of a
Summer Night” is notable for its
“Memorials for Dead Friends,” a group
of elegiac poems addressed to T. S.
Eliot, Louis MacNeice, John Minton,
and others; and for the long discursive
sequence that gives the book its title.
Barker’s poems are now smoother in
tone, less apocalyptic and wdld, and
without their early pointless and chaotic
violence, but they have lost some of their
verbal adventurousness and vigor. The
follower of Dionysus has become
extremely Apollonian indeed. But the
lines about Assisi have the appeal of
certain cinematic images or short film
sequences and the poem addressed to the
“Mosaic’d saints whom no compassion
has ever visited” has an extraordinary
imaginative depth.
What most strikes one reading the
“Collected Poems” of A. R. D. Fairburn
is the enormous variety of his output,
from the longer sequences of “Three
Poems” to the witty epigrams and squibs
that he seems to have produced at most
stages of his development. Clearly
endowed with much facility, Fairburn,
at his best, achieves directness through
free and natural speech, though his
poems are hardly striking for any meta-
phorical richness.
The Surf-rider
Out in the Golfe de Gascogne, on the
far
edge of the Atlantic beside Biarritz,
the surf-rider surfaces from a trough
in the sea’s swell, seeming to pull at
reins
of air currents while the wave wheels
him
as on a chariot, the horses of momentum,
harnessed to wind, throwing back manes
of sea-spray:
when the wave’s swelling explodes in a
dust-
storm of surf with a crowd-roar in the
bay’s
amphitheatre of tiers of the tide’s coming,
he wobbles a moment as in a rut, then,
leaning into the wind, arms loosening,
makes the surf as firm as cobblestones,
his
heels as secure as iron rims on wheels:
And now he rides the ocean, conqueror
of air and water in a contest of force,
heeling above the lion’s pit of depth:
until the surf eases, reaches the shore,
dragging him down to his knees. The
illusion
that he was born Godlike from the ocean
fades and what one saw was no miracle.
ZULFIKHAR GHOSE


NOONDAY
COUNTRY
Charles Higham
Charles Higham’s new collection of poems is essentially a book of the sea
which he sees as the symbol of freedom. For contrast there is the land,
which in a sensitive exploration of the Australian environment he sees as
sinister, waiting, untamed. And for variety there is a moving set of inter-
pretations of people of diverse personalities. ?1 85 (post 8c).
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
ANGUS &
ROBERTSON
The Jewish Africans
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
The Beginners. Dan Jacobson. Weiden-
feld and Nicolson. $3.85.
DAN JACOBSON is of South
African origin; this novel of
almost 500 pages deals with the
story of the Glickman family, a Jewish
family in South Africa. It traces their
acquisition of wealth, their growing up,
their involvement with South African
racial problems, with Israel, and with
England. The tone of the novel is
serious and sympathetic and the author
does not take sides, except to con-
demn racial intolerance and oppression.
The three Glickman children all
eventually go their separate ways. Joel
marries a Gentile divorcee and settles
in England, where he becomes a his-
tory academic. David, perhaps the
most rebellious, becomes a devout
Judaist, although not strict in his
observances; he works for the Israeli
Government as an engineer. He doesn’t
marry and becomes a confirmed soli-
tary. Rachel, after an affair with her
cousin, marries Bertie Preiss, an intense
young radical who has always had a
strong crush on her. Bertie immediately
ditches his radicalism and becomes a
competitive businessman and the two
remain in South Africa, where they
acquire a mansion and a swimming-
pool. Bertie becomes an obsessive
philanderer, and Rachel, who had al-
ways seemed somewhat thoughtless and
bitchy, acquires human sympathy and
does charity work for black children.
This is only a brief outline of a
very complicated plot crowded with
incidents and characters. The com-
plication of the plot arises from the
number of characters rather than from
the inner tensions of the story itself.
In fact, there is very little tension or
struggle in the novel and it proceeds
on an episodic rather than a dramatic
level.
The ultimate theme of the novel is
growth and development, the erosion
of dreams. Nothing turns out as we
expect. Joel becomes involved with
Zionism because of his involvement
with a girl who is a Zionist. When
the moment comes for the group to
emigrate from South Africa to Israel
the girl cannot face up to the realisa-
tion of her dream and stays in South
Africa, while Joel goes to Israel with-
out her. And Israel does not satisfy
him when he arrives there. When he
settles in England, he .marries a girl
he has passionately desired, but mar-
riage does not cure him of periods of
intense depression.
The author maintains a complex sys-
tem of checks and balances. Motives
are always mixed, and never pure, so
no one can be completely praised or
condemned. The only common reaction
is disquiet at the increasing inhumanity
of the South African political system,
and all the main characters become
alienated from the country, including
Rachel and Bertie, who remain there
for reasons of pure convenience. Begbie,
a novelist, who comes out in support
of the regime, is presented as selling
out.
The novel begins with a beautifully
described and .moving incident in which
an old Jew, grandfather Glickman, is
described going back to Europe with
50 of his sons’ hard-earned sovereigns
in the lining of his clothes, in order
that he may bring back his wife and
other members of the family to South
Africa. He gives the sovereigns to a
woman with children in distress whom
he encounters on a railway platform.
The old man’s satisfaction at his own
action and his incomprehension of his
family’s anger is beautifully described.
After reading this incident, I thought
that this novel might be a very im-
portant book. However, it does not
live up to the promise of its first few
pages and, like the characters, I
came out of the novel with a sense
of disappointment.
Many of the incidents in the novel
fail to grip the reader’s attention. I feel
that Mr. Jacobson is generally unable
to develop a dramatic situation con-
vincingly and frequently lapses into
obviousness or cliche. The canvas is
crowded, I suspect, in order that one
may not look too hard at the details.
Begbie, the young writer, has an obses-
sional affai.r with a negative and prob-
ably schizophrenic girl who does not
work and who lives through a series
of shallow affairs. She is killed in an
accident and Begbie publicly disowns
her at the inquest. This public disown-
ing foreshadows Begbie’s ultimate per-
sonal hollowness and his selling out to
the South African Government. How-
ever, although the affair with the girl
had been beautifully described up to the
moment of the inquest, I could not
help being somehow embarrassed by the
way in which the inquest was de-
scribed. It smacked more of melodrama
than drama. After Malcolm Begbie’s
public disavowal of the girl the follow-
ing sentence occurs. “White-faced, pale-
lipped, Malcolm went back to his
bench.” This for me was much too
amateurish.
Other incidents are also described
in a disconcerting fashion. There are
two chapters which each begin in the
middle of an intimately described
sexual act. In neither of the incidents
is there any adequate build-up and I
myself felt as one feels when one has
stumbled by accident into someone
else’s bedroom. Here again I felt that
Mr. Jacobson was imposing a false
dramatic emphasis.
Sometimes Jacobson writes very
well. He writes of a storm: “The head-
lamps of slowly moving cars showed the
rain as a cascade of sparks or scratches
against the darkness. The drops were
big and bounced high where they fell,
so that every surface looked as if it
were pitted with a multitude of tiny,
fleeting craters; just above their wild
agitation was a smoother skirt-like
movement, as each gust of wind blew
across the fall . .
In South Africa, like Australia, there
is no great cultural heritage or tradi-
tion. The characters in this book are
in a very true sense beginners, people
trying to create something meaningful
in all this newness and emptiness. Much
of what they do must inevitably appear
makeshift and not wholly satisfactory.
And in this truthful and sincere book
the newness and void are never satis-
factorily filled.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Board Standards
IT is as silly, for some directors to complain that it is
too risky to sit on boards these days because of the
tough new requirements of the Companies Acts, as it is
for shareholders to complain that directors are not keeping
the interests of shareholders first and foremost in their
minds.
There can be no doubt that, as the managerial function
becomes increasingly separated from ownership, the gap
between the major objectives of directors and shareholders
continues to widen. And this also means that there is
greater need for the existence of strict rules to regulate
the activities of directors, who in most instances nowadays
are acting more in effective trustee positions than as owners.
The rules have to be strict. No matter how disturbed people
like Mr. Peter Clyne may be (8., July 2 and 30) about
the executive powers being taken by governments in this
area, the fact remains that not only must shareholders
be protected in their relations with directors (who need
not necessarily have the same objectives), but society as
a whole must protect itself against misuse of the remarkable
privilege of limited liability which is the basis of the
co,mpany system.
When a State agrees to limit the liability but not the
profitability of a group of people who become a company,
there can be no argument about the State’s right to protect
itself; the only disagreement can be on the degree of that
protection to which it is entitled. Of course, the Companies
Acts are tough and are getting tougher; they have to be
to catch the people who have managed, with discouraging
ease, to escape the consequences of the reckless or dishonest
actions that brought so many of the financial disasters of
the first half of the current decade.
But it is equally important to make certain that there
will be no disastrous consequences of the laws becoming
too tough. Despite the violence of Mr. Clyne’s objections
to the Companies Acts on the score of their denial of
natural justice, so far there has been no evidence that
this consideration has prompted any able, available, com-
petent, and not overworked man to refuse a directorship
that he would otherwise have accepted. If there are
examples, then they have not been made public.
In any event, directors themselves are readily admitting
that there is a standard of good conduct that has not been
met by some of their brethren, particularly on the question
of diligence. Last week’s seminar held by the Institute of
Directors in Melbourne on “Guidelines to Directors” was
evidence of this, as was last year’s seminar by the same
organisation in Sydney on the “Duties and Responsibilities
of Directors.” At these gatherings, directors of large and
important public companies talked of the need for greater
disclosure of important information to shareholders, for an
upgrading of the calibre of some directors, for changing
the composition of many boards, and for more directors to
recognise the seriousness of their obligations.
In this sort of discussion—and in the way most of them
run their companies—directors have in general shown them-
selves to be far more aware of their social responsibilities
than the great bulk of shareholders, many of whom still
appear to resent suggestions that their companies have any
responsibilities other than to shareholders.
And it seems likely that these efforts by directors them-
selves will have a greater impact on directorial standards of
behaviour in the great bulk of companies than any legis-
lative action. For while much of the legislation (for
MEN AND MATTERS
THE stockmarket has long looked
on the rural operations of the
F. W. Williams group as the least
attractive of its many activities; its huge
ACI shareholding last year replaced
sisalkraft as its most appealing feature
—appealing enough to have prompted
one firm takeover offer and several
nibbles.
But by background, F. W. Williams
is a truly rural company. Its founder,
the late F. W. Williams, was a book-
keeper for Sir Samuel McCaughey at
Yanco, the property now the Yanco
Agricultural College.
In 1907, F. W. Williams left for
Sydney to set up a purchasing office
for farm supplies. Another bookkeeper
for Sir Samuel was David Thomas
Nicholas who, together with Otway
Rothwell Falkiner, was a foundation
director of the F. W. Williams business
when it was converted to a proprietary
company in 1918. The sons of these
two pien are on the board of the pre-
sent public company.
Brian E. Nicholas was managing
director of F. W. Williams and Co for
some years until 1962, when he retired
for family reasons to his grazing
property in the A.C.T. His brother
Keith is the present managing director.
The chairman, 57-year-old the Hon.
Otway McLaurin (Mac) Falkiner, is
O.R.’s son. Mac Falkiner is very much
a country man,
although he has
lived in the city
for the past 12
years since giving
up the manager-
ship of Boonoke
and Wanganella
Estate studs. Edu-
cated at Geelong
Grammar, he still
has extensive
country interests,
and has been a Country Party member
of the N.S.W. Legislative Council
since 1946.
Cable address of F. W. Williams and
Co. is “Homesteads,” a continuing link
with its rural origins, often obscured by
diversionary activities in sisalkraft, air-
craft, teaplanting, buttons, and ACI
investments.
LEADING (and dominating) the
much publicised margarine war
is Richard C. Crebbin, chairman
and managing director of Marrickville
Holdings Ltd., who “will never accept
defeat,” despite the loss of a few
battles along the way —even in the
Privy Council.
He has been contesting the quota
system for something like 14 years
now. And apart from the strictly
R. C. Crebbin
Otway Falkiner
Keith Nicholas
commercial reasons that so vitally
affect his company, he firmly believes
he is fighting on a matter of principle.
Dick Crebbin grew up in the Mar-
rickville-Eta arena. His uncle, Albert
B. Abel, founded the Marrickville
business in 1908. He died in 1954 and
Dick Crebbin succeeded him to the
chair.
He has had experience all the way
down the scale, from manufacture to
actually growing the raw material.
An old boy of Sydney High School,
he grew peanuts in the early ’3os for
Eta in Texas (N.S.W.) and out of
Copmanhurst. After wartime service
flying seaplanes around New Guinea,
he came back to an accountancy job
with Marrickville. In 1946 he was
appointed to the sales side, becoming
general sales manager in 1947.


example on public borrowings) has irritatingly affected many
honest and well-run public companies, its main impact has
been aimed at those on the fringe of respectability. It is
an unfortunate fact of life that all companies must bear
some inconvenience because of the actions of a small
minority. But what are the alternatives?
Shareholder Rights
IF directors are getting more aware of their mutual in-
terests, so are shareholders. The development (of
the N.S.W. branch of the Australian Shareholders’
Association to the stage where it now has a paid executive
director and its energetic support of shareholders’ interests
at company meetings and in controversies like Concrete
Industries’ dispute over North West Cape are evidence
enough of this.
But the shareholder movement has international implica-
tions. The New' York representative of the Swiss-based
“Foundation for the Protection of Corporate Standards,”
Dr. E. von Hofmannsthal (currently visiting Australia for
the law convention), has developed a link with the local
body. Communists who complain about international
capitalism can now meditate on the implications of inter-
national peoples’ capitalism.
For the aims of the international foundation are to
protect shareholders’ rights in general and it has pursued
these aims through the courts. It bases its views on con-
cepts of business morality such as the equality of share-
holders of the same category and the pre-emptive right.
This question of pre-emptive rights is of major significance
to Australian shareholders in view of the increasing use
by companies of the share placement technique in raising
money. Dr. von Hofmannsthal argues that a shareholder
owns not merely a number of shares in a company but
in effect a proportion of the company, and that this
proportion cannot be lowered against his will. If an
owner of shares is denied the right to buy shares being
placed, he suffers a loss, being deprived of part of his
assets.
“Even without a statutory provision the pre-emptive right
should and can be protected, either by stock exchange rules
or by the courts. An example of the latter is the decision
of the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland on July 15,
1965, which deduced the pre-emptive right from the prin-
ciple of equal treatment of all shareholders,” he says.
Industry in Victoria
IT’S not news to anybody that the Australian economy has
been becalmed these many months. What Noel Curphv,
general manager of the Victorian Chamber of Manu-
factures, had to say on the stand-still in production last
week, as reflected in the Chamber’s recent survey of out-
put and investment expectations in 83 branches of industry
covering the State, was just another confirmation of it.
However, always ready to point the bone at authority for
pinching the private sector’s clothes, Mr. Curphy didn’t
miss the opportunity to make cynical comparison between
the private sector’s sluggishness and the optimism of the
authorities.
Taking the latest White Paper on the economy and his
own Chamber’s survey together, he said it was obvious
that the only segment of the community enjoying boom
conditions is the public authority sector and “this is being
fostered to the detriment of private enterprise.” These hard
words may have been uttered primarily as a last-minute
attempt to influence the Budget, but, like many manufac-
turers and their spokesmen, Mr. Curphy, one gathers,
cannot see where the next lift in economic activity is com-
ing from.
Mr. Curphy doesn’t say so precisely, but what the private
sector needs as much as anything from the Budget is a
reduction in company tax.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy 2 The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s first 1966-67 loan achieved an sBm. over-
subscription to exceed the target sBom.; more than a
quarter of the proceeds came from institutions going
into the new 35-year security . . . During 1965-66
the consumer price index rose 3.7 percent, principally
because of increases in Government and semi-govern-
ment charges.
June savings bank deposits added $113.2m. to reach
a record $5253.7m., but the kick was actually given by
interest payments totalling $114.1m. . . . The first
six months of 1966 showed a net population gain of
64,300 from immigration.
Duties on imported built-up motor vehicles have gone
up 10 percent, in line with the Tariff Board’s February
ruling . . . Seasonal conditions are still deteriorating over
large areas of Eastern Australia.
For the markets 2 Three days of retreat, even if
they were not very shattering, took their toll of Aus-
tralian share markets and the all ordinaries indexes
were down on the week. Thursday and Friday did
produce a visible firming on moderate volumes and
ranges, once more chiefly under the instigation of
BHP’s oil side. Many purely oil issues have been car-
ried forward, yet looked quieter at the close. Base
metals remain calm.
Deflationary measures and Wall Street’s decline
could not help playing havoc with London, where the
index touched new lows each successive day. Selling
volumes were rising toward the end . . . After its
own heavy tumble, Wall Street found it impossible to
stage any form of rally; prices were still drifting under
lighter pressure on Friday.
For companies: The “season” is now in swing
with a vengeance. Perhaps the most eye-catching of
the early batch of reports come from the finance
houses . . . Veteran and able leader Australian Guaran-
tee Corporation scored a 19.4 percent profit advance
to a peak $5,510,521, also lifting earning rate from 28
to 29.1 percent on higher capital; receivables moved
up 10.4 percent to almost $269m. . . . The take-
over of Australian Equity helped Commercial and
General Acceptance to record earnings of $1,988,598,
up by 23 percent, although earning rate drifted from
16.1 to 14.2 percent . . . Incidentally, higher income
from CAGA aided its 40 percent owner, the Com-
mercial Banking Co. of Sydney, to a small profit rise
from $2,968,898 to $3,034,108 . . . The old Hooker
Finance, now Network Finance, earned $318,642 for a
$39,134 gain, after much lower tax . . . Meanwhile,
Associated Securities feels it can use larger funds and
plans a l-for-4 issue of 50 cent shares at a 50 cent
premium.
Short-term money market dealer Capel Court
Securities jumped profit by 52.5 percent to $309,372
and doubled its portfolio of commercial bills . . .
Bills Acceptance Corporation, formed early in 1965,
saw a quick initial profit, at $19,308, following “con-
siderable non-recurring expenditure” . . . Another
merchant bank, Industrial Growth Finance Ltd., is
to be sponsored by 18-month-old Merchant Bills Cor-
poration.
Industrial results already begin to look somewhat
variable . . . Steel and aluminium merchant William
Atkins managed steady profit of $289,389 on better,
and record, sales; earning rate drifted on issue-
boosted capital . . . Many-faceted Brambles Industries
reached a high $1,839,599, yet this was only a $52,075
gain and earning rate declined; tax went down $282,606
. . . Nothing, however, held back builder Paynter and
Dixon Industries, which raised dividend from 15 to


16 percent; profit rose $33,427 to
$355,089 after higher tax and de-
preciation . . . Developer and in-
vestor Lend Lease Corporation pro-
duced a small $20,648 profit rise,
to $1,383,696; sizable tax losses
were taken . . . Agricultural im-
plement maker Ralph McKay suf-
fered an earnings drop from
$408,692 to $357,403. yet held the
12) percent dividend . . . Profit of
hot-water equipment maker Draffin
Everhot slipped from $98,336 to
$89,790.
Capital expenditure by ICIANZ
appears to be moving lower . . .
Fertiliser and chemical compam
investor Cuming Smith is bringing
interim dividend from 7 to 7) per-
cent despite a slight drop in the
half-years income . . . Altona's
Australian Synthetic Rubber Co.
had to endure a profit retreat from
$731,176 to $543,686 on resumption
of interest payments previously
waived and a maiden tax payment
. . . The joint Esso (Aust.) and
Mobil (Aust.) Altona Petrochemical
Co. Pty. made higher sales so
profit advanced bv $394,842 to
$1,096,926.
Operational problems at Kandos
(now presumably resolved) forced
back Australian and Kandos Cement
Holdings’ profit from $2,209,022 to
$1,976,572; directors decided to
keep a 10 percent dividend rate . . .
Investment allowances on new plant
encouraged Adelaide Cement Hold-
ings, which posted a 29.2 percent
profit rise to $752,1 + 1 and paid 1!
percent (previously 11 2-5 percent)
after a l-for-5 par issue.
Office equipment does not appear
to be scamped . . . Lamson Indus-
tries Aust. reports group sales up
by 19 percent for tho June half-year
. . . Decimalisation gave Business
Equipment Holdings a 43 percent
profit fillip to $602,266 on sales
leaping from $6.3m. to $9.4m.; divi-
dend becomes 15 percent and
trading stays favorable.
A direct bid front Martin Cor-
poration goes to F. W. Williams’
shareholders, whose directors re-
jected the offer and talked about a
tax-free return of the ACI shares;
Martin proposes, if it succeeds, to
refloat the unprofitable Williams'
activities when they start to earn
again . . . Retailer Cox Bros, feels
able to state that "certain negotia-
tions are proceeding, but there is
nothing to report at this stage";
the market's favorite party is Great
Universal Stores. London . . . Mel-
bourne food processor Harvest
Foods’ negotiations are believed to
be with Denmark's The East Asiatic
Co. . . . Directors of Cottees have
given formal recommendation to
the bid from Parsons General
Foods . . . Motels of Australia’s
chain is to be extended in partner-
ship with U.K.'s Trust Houses Ltd.;
cash spending may total slsm.
Normal debenture interest will be
paid by Talcott Factors on Septem-
ber 1. which also does not expect to
lose more than $150,000 from its
dealings with Titanic Steel Fabri-
cations Ptv.
BHP denied a major oil strike
at the Esso-BHP Gippsland Shelf
No. 5 well; is negotiating to export
iron-ore pellets from the Whyalla
plant to Japan; and confirmed that
talks are proceeding to establish a
jointly owned overseas shipping line
with Japanese interests.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Some Answers to Droughts
DESPITE the fact that it has been
raining on and off all the week
here in Canberra, I am raising
the subject of drought again. A recent
Current Affairs Bulletin on the subject
does not seem to have received, the
attention it deserves. It deals more
thoroughly than anything else that has
been w ritten with the major policy prob-
lems posed and it does this quietly
and systematically. In the process it
throws open to question many of the
things which have been done or sug-
gested recently in the name of drought,
relief.
In an obvious reference to Air. Beale's
proposal for a 20-year program of dam
construction, large-scale irrigation is
shown to be irrelevant to the prob-
lem. In growing a pound's weight of
wool, a sheep and the grass it eats
consume between 100 and 500 tons of
water. This means, according to my
arithmetic, that in order to have over-
come the effect of last year's drought
on the woolclip about 40m acre feet
of water about a hundred Sydney
Harbors full would have had to be
available. This could only be provided
by storages of the capacity of about
fifty Snowy schemes!
Now the loss in wool production
due to last year’s drought must have
been of the order of s2oom. Even
assuming it was possible to find the
necessary rivers and dam sites, it is
difficult to see how construction of
water storages of such immensity could
be justified by the saving of s2oom.
each year; let alone the saving of s2oom.
every ten or fifteen years when there
is a drought.
So it seems as if large-scale irrigation
schemes small storages may be a
different matter are quite out of
the question as a practical drought
measure.
The bulletin also makes the point
that schemes for financial relief to
farmers should be looked at carefully.
Money for restocking may simply result
in the price of sheep being bid up.
This may produce a few more sheep
for restocking if housewives
economise as a reaction to expensive
meat and save some animals from the
slaughterhouse. But it will not help
very much. It follows that relief moneys
distributed very widely among farmers
are of limited relevance to the rate of
recovery from the drought. This is
determined most of all by the number
of surviving breeding animals and the
weather.
Iff 1 on the positive side there are a
number of suggestions for improv-
ing future response to drought con-
ditions. The bulletin argues that one
aspect of income tax law discourages
graziers from selling off animals when
drought sets in. Since they are allowed
under the lavs to bring the natural in-
crease in livestock into their inventory
at nominal prices, they are encouraged
to stock up heavily. In bad years, they
are discouraged from selling off animals
as they should by the income tax they
will have to pay. 1 his is levied on the
full value realised at sale.
An appropriate redistribution of
livestock in the face of drought is also
hindered by inadequacies in the markets
for sheep and cattle. Dealers and agents,
naturally enough, are geared to the
movement of animals which takes place
in normal seasons. The movement
needed in drought years is very different
and there may be a case for direct
or indirect government action in drought
years to provide the intermediary
agency services needed to ensure that
people who want to buy and sell are
able to do so.
Beyond that, the main means to
drought protection may be through
pasture improvement. Better pastures
by definition make better use of avail-
able supplies of water and minerals
and, importantly from the drought
angle, they grow during a larger pro-
portion of the year. The indigenous
fodder reserves which can be built up
in this way are probably the cheapest
reserves of all.
For drought, as for many things in
the economic world, the best answers
are a combination of disparate measures.
“Thinking big" about national fodder
reserves' or chains of reservoirs only
delays the job of getting down to the
necessarily tedious task of examining
the problems and the. opportunities in
all their detail.
(The bulletin “Drought” is available
at a cost of three 4c stamps from the
Department of Adult Education. Syd-
ney University.)


J,
l
d
r
m
B 2
SHELL
❖ Shell is exploring for oil
❖ Shell is refining
❖ Shell products meet the needs
of industry, transport and agricul-
ture
❖ Shell fuels win car races
❖ Shell is prominent in educa-
tional, sporting and cultural acti-
vities. Yes, Shell is certainly
everywhere.
You can be sure of Shell
is
everywhere
J. C. HORSFALL'S MELBOURNE
Gippsland Gets "With It"
IT’S still six weeks or so to Mel-
bourne’s Royal Show, but on the
RAS/Shell journalists’ tour of
Gippsland this week one discovered it
is none too early for country exhibitors
down there to be getting their cattle
in for a preliminary sorting out and
general wash and brush up. In the
old days cows could chew relatively
happily in the fertile Latrobe Valley.
Most of the going was theirs until Sir
John Monash, back from World War I,
came along to exploit the brown coal
resources under the rich grassy pre-
serves of the herds. If the valley has
somewhat belied the highest hopes for
its industrial development, at least
there are enough tall chimneys, and
so much more sophistication than the
cockey farmers could have dreamed of
fifty years ago.
In recent years a lot of prospectively
promising firms have struggled for
dear life in the Latrobe Valley. The
usual reason for their strife has been
that, while a host of female labor has
been available for employment, light
industry has generally been found to
be uneconomic compared with metro-
politan competitors because of high
transport costs for bringing raw mater-
ials to the factories and getting goods
to metropolitan markets. Some heavier
industries like cement have had a
hard battle for survival. Few have
succeeded so well as, say, APM’s mag-
nificent milling and paper-making
operation at Maryvale, which I re-
visited this week, but in its case, of
course, the raw material is growing
virtually on its doorstep and its mar-
kets are nationwide.
The future of Gippsland’s industrial
development has been clouded by the
discovery of oil and natural gas in
Bass Strait, though to talk of brown
coal output running down in the light
of the huge build-up of thermal elec-
tric plant to use brown coal on such
a huge scale, as at Hazelwood, for
instance, is, of course, nonsense. Nor,
it seems, are the Lurgi gas installations
likely to be left to rust when natural
gas starts to flow through the pro-
jected natural gas pipelines, which in
any case looks like being some way
off.
In the meantime one has to report
a new feeling of being “with it” abroad
in Gippsland, now that the biggest
oil field in Australia has been dis-
covered on its doorstep, though some
citizens think it’s rather ironic (if the
report is true) that BHP-Esso’s latest
drill has recently run through a large
seam of brown coal hardly the sort
of stuff its looking for. This reminds
me, back in Melbourne there's a good
deal of dissatisfaction about the paucity
of information so far released on the
findings in the latest hole, and nobody
seems to be able to authenticate the
actual thickness of oil-bearing sands in
the discovery well as being in the order
of 300 ft. compared with the 12ft. found
in the new one. I hear, however, that
this is not deterring knowledgeable
buying of BHP.
DIRECTORS had a held day in
Melbourne last week at you
know where in Exhibition Street.
One of the weightiest suggestions was
put up by Mr. Jock Hambleton, ex-
Melbourne University shot putter,
now managing-director of Tweedside
Manufacturing. Leading the discussion
on Mr. J. H. Kirkhope’s paper on
takeovers, Mr. Hambleton declared
there should be two closed seasons for
takeover offers, one extending for a
fortnight either side of Christmas, and
the other around Easter, which he
didn’t consider to be strictly commer-
cial periods. And to make the lot of
vulnerable boards much easier all
round, he thought bidders should be
required to put up 10 percent of the
consideration. If their bids failed they
should pay compensation for the
bother caused.


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
■PI
Paid up capital
$23,350,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
7il
NEW ISSUE
FOR 7 YEARS
SHINOW ZL °MS
OtW tete* and terms available m Prospectus for full
dfetiiii. Prospectus and application tom available from:
* All MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
* All BRANCHES OF THE AM. BANK
* All BRANCHES OF lAX.
Applications wilt proceed only oh one of the forms
of application attached to a prtnted copy of Prospectus,
wmwMßns iAft porm & ca.
1005 Members of the Stctk Exchange, Melbourne.
Too Little and Too Late
The trustee companies in action
By CROESUS
THOSE paragons of virtue, the big trustee companies whose highly respectable
names have figured prominently as trustees for prior charges in most
of the classic company crashes in recent years, live on, as Caesar’s wife,
above suspicion.
These concerns, which get paid for
looking after money for the living and
the dead, have taken their fees for
performing their safeguarding role over
money subscribed to the debentures of
such whoppers as Reid Murray. They
have usually acted too little, and in-
variably too late, to stop most of it
going down the drain in some of the
most highly geared companies we’ve
yet seen in Australia. I’ve not seen
one of them bat an eyelid in shame
or regret.
Now that Victorian Companies Acts
have closed their ranks for them and,
in a bold stroke to plug holes in their
deeds, have supplemented their sur-
veillance powers over borrowing
corporations, I suppose it isn’t quite
cricket to rub in their past misdeeds.
But a call I made last week on the
receivers for the Reid Murray group
(also for H. G. Palmer) set me on
their tracks again, so firmly that I was
set pondering whether, if the trustees
for the Reid Murray debentures had
done their job properly in accordance
with the actual requirements of the trust
deeds, the Reid Murray fiasco would
have happened at all. One thing is
certain: it couldn’t have happened on
such a colossal scale, because only a
fraction of the public money actually
subscribed for the debenture issues
would have been available to the
group.
With the Reid Murray board bent
on reckless expansion anyway, un-
doubtedly the trustees for the deben-
ture holders would have had their
work cut out, if fully exerting their
rights and obligations of surveillance.
That is one thing. But my present
text comes from a much earlier chapter
in the story, that governing the borrow-
ing powers of Reid Murray Acceptance
Ltd., the group’s public borrowing
corporation, as laid down in the trust
deeds. The receivers spell it out in
black and white that, in seven out of
nine of the series of debenture issues,
there was abject failure to carry out
the provisions in the trust deeds limit-
ing authorised borrowings. This allowed
the group the use of untold millions
of public money it was not entitled to
raise on debenture.
The trust deeds are quite explicit
on the authorised limits to borrowing.
In identical clauses they state that
“until all the stock has been redeemed
the company shall not borrow any sum
if the borrowing thereof could have
the effect that the aggregate of all
moneys owing by the company and its
subsidiaries would exceed the amount
of five times shareholders’ funds.”
They also lay down the following
procedure to be followed: “Before mak-
ing any further issue of or creating
debentures or debenture stock or other
securities ranking pari passu with the
stock already issued, the company shall
give written notice of its intention to
the trustee and" the trustee shall within
one month after the receipt of this
notice require the company to obtain
from a chartered accountant nominated
by the trustee and acceptable to the
company a report as to the extent to
which the company is entitled to create
or make a further issue of debentures
or debenture stock or other securities
without infringing the restriction im-
posed by this clause. The chartered
accountant shall furnish his report to
the company and to the trustee and
the company shall not create or make
a further issue of debentures or deben-
ture stock or other securities ranking
pari passu with stock already issued to
an extent which in the opinion of the
chartered accountant as set out in his
report would infringe the restriction
imposed by this clause.”
T° most people this will read as a
strict injunction to the trustees to
have declared the company in breach of
the trust deeds in the event of the com-
pany allotting debenture stock in ex-
cess of the limits laid down in them.
There can be no question of the pro-
cedures not being followed up to the
stage of the trustee being furnished
with the necessary reports by the chart-
ered accountant as nominated.
My purpose in this article is not to
follow through these consequences as
seen by the receivers, except to say
that they raise the question whether
holders of debenture stock issued after
the respective limits had been reached
were effectively secured at all, and to
say, in the words of the receivers, that
“if the answer to that question was
that all such debenture stock issued
outside the trust deeds did not have the
benefit of the charges given hereby,
the holders would rank as unsecured
creditors of the company.”
The irony of this is that the pro-
posed scheme of arrangement provides
for the payout of debenture holders for
all series on an equal basis in propor-
tion to the realised assets (which should
ultimately return them about 75 cents
in the $). It gives unsecured creditors
only one and a quarter cents in the
dollar. At least some of those deben-
ture holders turning up at the South
Melbourne Town Hall later this month
to approve the scheme of arrangement
should consider themselves as very
lucky people indeed to be salvaging
so much of their original investment.
A lot of others will doubtless be think-
ing, as I am, what are trustees paid
for?


MANAGEMENT
What to do with Debtors
Manufacturers and me>-
, chants make bad bankers. Yet
most sales through the whole
spectrum of Australian business are
made on terms of one sort or another
that in effect mean that the supplier is
lending money unsecured to the buyer.
This is one reason for the huge volume
of bad debts that have struck Aus-
tralian business in recent years; bad
debts that have not by any means been
limited to the sellers of consumer goods.
But carrying trade debtors is essen-
tial if companies are to make sales in
a competitive society. What should
manufacturers and merchants do about
these debtor assets they are forced to
carry by the facts of business life?
Should a company factor its debtors,
or insure them, or discount them as
commercial bills, or raise a bank over-
draft on them?
These four alternatives were
examined in detail last week in Syd-
ney when the Australian Institute of
Management held a one-day seminar
on managing the debtor asset.
The growth of a commercial bill
market has brought with it rapid
development in discounting company
paper in Australia, but the market is
still very small in relation to its
potential. Much of the business is
done outside the official market and
there has been a tendency for official
operators to concentrate more on
accommodation bills (which are really
rivals for bank overdraft) than to deal
with the trade bills which appeal to
unofficial dealers like Bills Acceptance
Corporation Ltd. and which involve
the direct discounting of a specific-
debt arising out of the purchase of
goods.
'J'HE main advantages of insuring
debtors, according to Mr. H. E.
Nunn, manager and underwriter in
Australia of the Trade Indemnity Co.
(a company owned by a group of Brit-
ish tariff insurance companies), is that it
takes the "red out of credit” by pro-
tecting the debtor asset; it guards the
cash flow; it strengthens the liquid
reserves; it reduces bad debts and it
complements credit management. "This
means that management is relieved of
much of the worry and time spent in
establishing a customer’s credit
worthiness.”
Mr. Nunn said the basic principles
of credit insurance are that:
• Credit insurance should concern it-
self only with credit risks for goods
sold and delivered by merchants and
manufacturers to their customers on
credit terms in the normal course of
business.
• To rank justifiably under the head-
ing of insurance, the risks covered
should be a genuine average of com-
mercial credit risks.
• Cover should never be provided for
the whole of the risk. The insured
should at all times carry part for his
own account to induce him to choose
his buyers with discretion, to avoid
over-trading, and to pursue his debtors
with appropriate vigor when the first
signs of financial difficulty arise.
It is normal to provide 75 percent
or 80 percent cover of the insured
debts. Bearing in mind that some
proportion of all debts represents the
profit element, this represents a very
substantial safeguard for the debtor
asset and in particular for the working
capital involved in it.
Credit and its problems are to an
Extent extraneous to the manufacturer's
and merchant's real job, which is pro-
duction and distribution of goods. To
the credit insurer, on the other hand,
they are his prime concern. He is
thus able in .marketing to relieve man-
agement of much of the worry and
time spent in establishing a customer's
credit-worthiness, and, in production
and finance, by the quick payment of
losses to reduce wastage and protect
working capital.
Businessmen can obtain insurance on
specific risks or over the whole of
tbeir turnover.
■'B AD . debts” are invariably linked
with the expected, and usually pro-
vided-for, rate of loss peculiar to a
particular trade and to the not-so-
good or weak customer. They are rarely
if ever associated with the customer
who is considered sound and who, in-
cidentally, owes the most money. This,
however, is the real risk. As it is vir-
tually impossible to pick and choose
accounts for insurance and as the loss
which really hurts is the least expected
one, the whole turnover policy,
under which an insured party covers
all his credit sales without selection
(sales to Government departments,
nationalised industries, and the like
are, of course, excluded), has been
developed to cater for this problem.
The main services the credit insurer
gives, then, are: firstly, he supplies a
considered credit opinion on the buyer.
Secondly, having given the opinion,
the insurer backs it with hard cash.
Credit insurance promises only to
minimise losses it does not guaran-
tee that they will not occur. However,
if they do he is there with cash to
make good his promise. His resources
are considerable, as he does not rely
only on his own capital and reserves
but spreads the risk widely through
the insurance market by way of rein-
surance. Examination and payment of
claims is rapid, leaving the insured's
own finances relatively undisturbed.
Thirdly, if and when trouble arises,
the insurer gives expert guidance and
active help, because he is carrying the
major part of the risk.
Much has been heard about the
failures that have taken place in the
factoring industry, but very ‘little
about the successful operators who
make factoring services available
to Australian management. Mr.
John Frearson, N.S.W. manager of
International Factors (A’asia) Pty.
Ltd., told the seminar that it was vital
to distinguish pure fac-toring the
purchase of receivables from a client
on a continuing basis for their full fare
value less a fee, and without recourse
to the client for bad debts from
the other forms of financing inaccurately
called ■‘factoring” in Australia.
The Factor does not lend anything,
and the client does not borrow any-
thing and, therefore, has nothing to
repay, as he merely converts an exist-
ing asset, in this instance, his debtor
asset, into a more useable and flexible
form, at the same time relieving him-
self of all credit risks.
In pure factoring, the procedures
are disarmingly simple. The client
company raises and issues its invoices
in the usual manner, merely over-
stamping a payment directive, and
retains a copy for the Factor. These
copies are forwarded to the Factor at
regular intervals or as the client com-
pany wishes. The Factor accepts the
invoices, and undertakes to disburse
to the extent of their full face value,
less his fee, usually within two work-
ing days of acceptance.
This is the whole of the action as
far as the client is concerned; all that
then remains is for him to receive and
bank the factoring company’s cheque
(this will even be done for him,
should he so desire). He has elimin-
ated the problems of credit extension,
ledgerkeeping, collection of moneys, and
the incurring of bad debts, as well as
placing himself in a highly liquid
state.
When the fact that there can be no
bad debt write-offs, nor even the need
for provision, is added to all this, it
is apparent that the savings available
to offset the Factor’s charges are quite
considerable. However, perhaps the
most important of them all, and the
most difficult to evaluate, is the saving
in valuable management time.
As the Factor is assuming the whole
of the credit risk, he is going to have
a say in the manner and the level to
which credit is extended.
All this has a price. The factoring
fee, which is agreed between Factor and
client before joining, is expressed in a
simple and straightforward manner as
percentage of invoice value. Experience
in Australia has shown that the style
of operation described above usualK
costs between two percent and four
percent of the invoice face value. This
means that of every $lOO of invoice
value passed to the Factor, the client
would receive betwen $96 and $9B.
This is the only charge made and.
whilst it covers every facet of the fac-
toring service, it does not alter should
the paying performance of the under-
lying debtor deteriorate or the inci-
dence of bad debt increase.


WILD CAT
PAGES
Finance Stocks Still Good
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
THERE is still some money to be
made out of investing in leading
finance companies; last week’s
market response to the burst of good
results for 1965-66 seems certain to be
followed by increasing investor redis-
covery of this industry.
Since finance stocks were strongly
recommended here a few weeks ago
(and our chartist agreed), several have
risen to near their highest level for the
year and the “other finance” section
of the Sydney share price index has
jumped almost 10 percent in the last
five months.
It is true that some of the recent
results, notably from CAGA, indicated
a slowing down in the rate of profit
rise in the second half of the year. But
AGC followed up its 17 percent half-
year profit rise with a 19| percent lift
for the full year at a time when
receivables increased at little better
than half that rate. This is the key
to the business and the reason that
selected companies like AGC should do
even better in 1966-67.
The first reason for it continuing is
that the perpetual credit shortage has
increased the demand for finance by
better-quality borrowers, so reducing the
bad debt problem, and that the leasing,
factoring, and other business financing
operations carried out in increasing
volume by companies like AGC are
bringing increasing profits, if for no
other reason than that they generally
involve larger amounts than consumer
credit and are therefore cheaper to
manage.
This does not mean that companies
like Custom Credit, which have set
out solidly after the personal loans
business, should not also reap substan-
tial benefits from the restraints on bank
lending that seem likely to be with
us for a long time yet. It is also
important that the serious losses some
companies were suffering through their
motor-car insurance subsidiaries are
now being turned into reasonable
profits largely as a result of higher
insurance charges allowable.
IT takes courage, but buying against
the cycle in cyclical stocks is the
way to make money. Although the
worst seems to have passed, there still
appears scope for counter-cyclical in-
vestment in the Melbourne developer
Consolidated Home Industries Ltd.
Net profit for 1965-66 likely to
be a little below 1964-65, but'the shares
now provide good dividend returns
while awaiting the inevitable upswing
in the building industry, which could
take the scrip'well above $1 once again.
Present prices of around 70 cents
a 15 cent improvement over the year’s
low of a few weeks ago offer a
yield of more than 7 percent from
the 10 percent dividend which will un-
doubtedly be maintained for the latest
period.
The payout was covered more than
three times by earnings in 1964-5; some-
thing very drastic would have to happen
before a cut was warranted. Profits were
reported steady for the December six
months of the latest year, so the year’s
total result is unlikely to reduce the
dividend cover to any less than two
times.
IF the speculative Adelaide company
Mines and Quarries Development
follows its previous pattern, inves-
tors may never learn the name of the
mysterious “interstate quarrying inter-
ests” with whom directors have
reached agreement on a joint develop-
ment of the company’s blue dolomite
leases in the Adelaide foothills.
The 1961 prospectus listed a tin
lease in,the Northern Territory (aban-
doned later that year) along with these
Adelaide blue metal leases, plans for
the development of which were at “an
advanced stage.” The following year
Consolidated Gold Fields looked at and
left the deposits and on three other
occasions since then the board has
announced fresh prospects of merger
or association in developing them with
other companies that were always un-
named. In each case, nothing eventu-
ated.
This time directors say the terms of
agreement “have been settled” and it
is to be “implemented forthwith.”
Since the announcement the shares
have jumped from about 16 cents to
33 cents. At these prices they appear
to be good “putting” in the options
market.
TWO different sorts of market tip-
sters-—fundamental analysts and
chartists are currently recom-
mending Mindrell shares and foresee a
general rise in the market price over
the next few months. The company
makes diamond drills and complete
diamond drilling equipment. Its profit
record has been rather volatile over the
past few years, but the current rash
of mineral exploration is believed to be
bringing in a lot of business.
Analysts are thus predicting a fair-
sized profit increase for the year to
June 30 last. Earning rate in 1964-65
was 14.9 percent and, in the December
six months of 1965-66, profits were
reported higher after substantially in-
creased turnover. The interim dividend
was raised from 5 to 6 pecent. On the
indicated annual 12 percent rate, some
analysts feel the 51 percent yield pro-
vides considerable room for price im-
provement. The shares have already
The Chartist says:
LIFE SAVERS (AUSTRALIA) LTD. could now be bought on technical
grounds. The long-term trend on the chart reveals that this stock has rfiost
probably passed its growth phase and is now showing more cyclical tendencies
since the top formation in 1962 and the break in the steep upward trend. The
sideways movement during 1964 indicated a downside objective of $2.20, which
was in fact slightly exceeded when the stock fell to a low point of $2.12 in
November, 1965. A consolidation base pattern has since formed and an upward
trend at a basic rate of 20 percent has now been established. Investors could
expect this stock to rise to a target of $3.00, with a possibility of a further move
to about the $3.20 level, where considerable resistance would be encountered from
the 1964 top formation. Last sale price on 29/7/66—52.52.


Insulate as you decorate with
Cane-ite
INSULATING BOARD FOR WALLS AND CEILINGS
I
&
£
iU
1
jm
in
4-
Ka'
K’-nA
Id
■
D
THE GOLDEN KEY TO COMFORT
Cane-ite insulates,
absorbs noise and
decorates, all at one low cost
Cool in Summer . . . warm in winter. Just right all year round. Cane-ite's
first job is to give you insulation, but it has such an interesting suede
texture you’ll want it for decoration, too.
Cane-ite is made from clean pine log fibres. It’s white-ant and vermin
proofed, and combines structural strength with insulation from heat
and cold. Cane-ite is truly the key to your comfort, and it’s so easy
to fix, too.
Available from Hardware Stores
and Timber Yards Everywhere
siiimnj/ s sJ‘!i D 'iini
<«s>>
mo
v*f i m ¥tr
recovered strongly from their 1966 low
of 73 cents and look like climbing to
greater heights as earning prospects
continue to improve.
One chartist says this recovery from
73 cents has firmly established the
shares on an upward price trend. The
pattern calculations for the past few
years indicate an eventual target of
230 cents. However, some resistance to
a price rise could be felt for a little
while around present levels.
The Battle of Rundle Street
SINCE Myers absorbed Myers S.A.,
armchair strategists in the retail
battle of Rundle Street have been
looking for new campaigns. Now there
seems to be a good one looming that
affects the strongly held Adelaide folk-
lore that big retailers prosper only on
the north side of the street —a legend
that John Martins, Myers, David Jones,
Coles, and Woolworths have been
working hard to preserve.
But the legend has never been sub-
jected to the acid test of a really
dynamic competitor on the south side
—a consideration of mounting import-
ance now that there are no worthwhile
sites left on the north.
And the new dynamism in the Wal-
tons group following the link with the
First National City Bank of New York,
the acquisition of Marcus Clark’s Can-
berra store, and the suggestions that
Waltons still has some money to spend
has renewed speculation about its likely
plans for Adelaide especially in
view of its assault on Melbourne’s
Bourke Street.
There are two sizable stores opera-
ting well under their capacity on
Rundle Street’s south side that could
appeal to Waltons—the relatively new
building operated by the local Cox
Bros, subsidiary and, much closer to
the heart of things, the big Harris
Scarfe store.
The future of the Cox-Foys store
(and of the remnants of the whole
Cox chain) has pro,mpted some whim-
sical speculators to consider the pos-
sibility of Mr. John Walton picking up
at cheap prices some of the pieces of
the Cox empire he tried so hard and
so unsuccessfully to buy for so much
money ten years ago.
But others consider the more in-
teresting case is Harris Scarfe, a whole-
sale-retail combination traditionally
specialist in hardware and builders’
supplies, which has yet to recover from
the drubbing it received in the “credit
squeeze.”
After incurring a small loss in 1961-
62, the company has slowly restored
earnings, in absolute terms, to a figure
about 25 percent above pre-squeeze
levels. However, reflecting an ill-timed
bonus issue in 1960 and subsequent note
conversions, the return on capital is
pegged around 15 percent. Before the
squeeze the company earned a peak
22.7 percent, and paid 15 percent. The
present pay-out of 8 percent appears
to be the maximum in prospect for
some time.
Scarfe’s problem is to find an iden-
tity to justify its occupation of so large
a slice of prime real estate.
A useful and logical first move in
this direction was the separation of the
“heavy” side of the business, steel and
industrial supplies, under a new roof
at Port Adelaide. But in retailing, as
the major retailers have encroached
further into its home hardware and
allied departments, Harris Scarfe has
noticeably broadened its own range of
merchandise. In recent months the in-
terior of the Rundle Street store has
presented a rather bewildering spec-
tacle. Merchandise of all kinds is dis-
played bazaar-fashion about the store,
while a wandering spruiker with port-
able microphone flits about pinpointing
specials and bargains.
None of this has gone unnoticed by
the market, which keeps the shares
pegged back around or below par.
Whispers in support of the shares
have lately again played up the
takeover angle. However, it’s hardly
conceivable that any of the existing
Rundle Street operators could be en-
ticed across the road, and equally un-
likely that another eastern States major
would entertain the thought of a pur-
chase on a going-concern basis.
Scarfe’s store is big, but old. It
probably wouldn’t appeal in its present
form to the Walton organisation. The
alternatives, such as a carve-up sale
of the site, are unlikely to bring much
direct benefit to shareholders.


MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
INCORPORATED IN 1935, PAID-UP CAPITAL $8,000,000
DEBENTURE
STOCK
3 MTHS 5% P.A.
6 MTHS. 6% P.A.
12 MTHS. 6%% P.A.
2 YRS. 7% P.A.
3 YRS 7V*% P.A.
4 YRS. m% P.A.
STO 10 YRS. 8% P.A.
YIELDING UP TO P.A.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications are obtainable from:
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative Office, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
• Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
N.B. Applications for Deben-
ture Stock will proceed only on
one of the Forms of Applica-
tion referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the
Prospectus.
The main business of Mercan-
tile Credits Ltd. is the provision
of finance facilities in various
forms for industrial, commer-
cial or private purposes.
929/66
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
William Adams ' Dilemma
THE main question that shareholders
of William Adams and Co. Ltd.
will want answered at next week’s
annual meeting is how the cojnpany
intends to raise the $1 million or so
it needs for its current development
plans.
Another share issue may not be popu-
lar with shareholders, not only because
of the need to find the money for it, but
also because of the strain it could
impose on the company’s earning rate.
Recent sales at $2.10 suggest some fears
on this score, as they provide the high
dividend yield—assuming maintenance
of the 12J percent dividend— of 6.0
percent and earnings yield of 9.6 per-
cent. The shares were $3.03 at the
end of July, 1965, before announcement
of the last issue of one-for-five at 100
percent premium.
Last year Williajn Adams spent about
$l.l million on fixed assets and at
April 30 it had contracts for capital
expenditure unprovided for in the
accounts of sl.6m. To help pay for
these there were $500,000 in deposits
at call following receipt of the final
instalment of $1 fropa the September,
1965, issue on the penultimate date of
the business year. In addition, the
company has property in the books at
$187,822 which it plans to sell,
Another source of funds will be the
expected run-down in stocks, which
jumped last year by $l.B million, or
23 percent, although sales were only
steady at $37.7 million. Directors have
forecast an “adjustment downwards”
shortly, since the stock build-up
(mainly of steel and tractors) was in-
voluntary, due to a dampening of de-
mand for the company’s products,
If it is to raise about $1 million>
the company has the choice of seeking
loan money at up to 8 percent, costing
$BO,OOO a year before tax; of offering
hard-pressed shareholders another issue,
or making a placement of shares to an
institution. But the attraction of get-
ting some sort of premium on a share
issue is countered by the fact that
extra capital would add even more to
the steadily mounting dividend com-
mitment, which will already rise by a
further $BO,OOO this year to $680,000
if 12£ percent is maintained. It would
also have another depressing impact on
the earning rate on average capital,
which last year was sliced from 30.2
percent to 20.1 percent and will face
the added burden of last year’s 914,000
new shares which will rank for the
full year. This is an important con-
sideration at a time when profits are
still under pressure, and when directors
have said that trading conditions had
made it difficult to maintain turnover,
particularly in the final quarter —not a
good omen for 1966-67.
To raise fixed interest money would
bring long-term liabilities (increased
by slm. borrowed on mortgage from
a financial institution late last year)
to $4.4m. as against share capital of
$5.4m. which is backed by share re-
serves of $6.6m. Such high gearing
could embarrass the company in a year
of tough trading, as can be encountered
by anyone involved in steel, engineer-
ing, machine tools and heavy capital
equipment, which are so sensitive to
economic change.
SALES increased in 1965-66 from
$37.7m. to $37.9,m., but profit de-
clined 5.3 percent from $1,020,000 to
$965,000, after a commensurate fall of
$lOO,OOO in tax to $755,000.
The trading profit fall of $270,000
to $2.2 million would have brought a
larger fall in net profit than the event-
ual $54,000 but for the fact that the
company’s interest bill dropped $75,000
as a result of the note conversion,
and it felt no need to repeat the pre-
vious year’s $42,000 doubtful debts
provision.
In 1964-65 when the sales improve-
ment was 20 percent overall, giving a
record profit, the merchandising divis-
ion was lagging behind steel, engineer-
ing and tractors. In the year under
review, the only States where profit im-
proved were Western Australia and
Tasmania. Merchandising sales were up
a little (presumably influenced by alu-
minium, although the competitive
nature of this business in the year since
it took over the Alcoa franchise would
have kept margins thin), steel and
engineering were fractionally down,
but tractor sales were well ahead, par-
ticularly in Tasmania.
April 30 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Sales sm. 23.3 26.2 31.4 37.7 37.9
Working profit $OOO 474 1084 1584 2118 1966
Depreciation $OOO 166 161 194 242 246
Tax $OOO 104 357 593 856 755
Net profit $OOO 204 566 797 1020 965
Earning rate p.c. 7.0 18 0 24.5 30.2 20.1
Dividend rate 10 liy 4 12V 2 15 12V 2
'Earning rate on total
„ funds 1.8 5.1 7.4 8.3 6.2
Current -ratio 3.7 3.3 2.3 2.5 2 8
Fixed assets $OOO 3194 3226 4089 4596 5594
Dividend yield (a) 4.4 4.5 3.7 5.3 6.0
Price/earnings ratio
36.3 13.7 13.7 10.3 10.4
High price (b) 3.20 2.92 3.72 3.50 2.90
Low price (b) 1.92 2.10 2 74 2.62 2.10
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
MINING
Some Smaller Tin Miners
IT has been estimated that, by 1970,
Australian tin production, which
was in the order of 4000 tons of tin
metal in 1965, will more than double,
and that by 1967 Australia will be
self-sufficient in tin.
Although the contribution to this
increase from the larger producers, such
as Renison Ltd., Ardlethan Tin N.L.,
Ravenshoe Tin Dredging Ltd. and
Greenbushes Tin N.L., together with
the bringing into operation of the
Aberfoyle Partnership’s new Mt. Cleve-
land mine, is generally appreciated, it
is not often realised that numerous
other smaller tin ventures could account
for a substantial part of the increase.
The higher tin prices which have
persisted over the past two to three
years have encouraged these smaller
producers to come into operation or
to expand existing production, and more
significantly have made possible the
.mining of lower grade ores which were
previously considered uneconomic. If
tin prices remain firm, these smaller
operations could do very well but,
correspondingly, any marked weaken-
ing in tin prices could make these
ventures —particularly those based on
lower grade ores—unprofitable. Un-
fortunately, assessment of the prospects
of such ventures is often made more
difficult through lack of detailed infor-
mation on ore reserves and grades.
JsJEVERAL listed mining companies are
currently testing or operating small
tin prospects, both lode and alluvial. Of
these, operations by Kathleen Invest-
ments Ltd.’s subsidiary, Pilbara Tin
Pty. Ltd., are perhaps the most inter-
esting. The expansion of operations by
this subsidiary is in line with the board's
policy of diversification in view of the
cessation of dividends from Mary
Kathleen Uranium Ltd.
In late 1964, Kathleen Investments
acquired all the issued capital of
Mineral Concentrates Pty. Ltd., a com-
pany operating a tin field at Mool-
yella, near Marble Bar, W.A., with a
production capacity of 130 tons of 70
percent tin concentrates per annum. (In
actual fact the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources gives production of mineral con-
centrates in 1964 as 152 tons, containing
107 tons of tin.) Since then the com-
pany has taken up further tin leases in
the area, all tin operations now being
conducted under the name Pilbara Tin
Pty. Ltd.
Late in 1965, new production equip-
ment was installed to increase capacity
to 600 tons of concentrates per annum,
to be expanded after the first year to a
rate of 800 tons per annum. At that
stage proven and indicated reserves
were considered sufficient for about 8 to
10 years. However, considerable teeth-
ing troubles were encountered with the
new plant, and b/ June this year pro-
duction levels had only reached 30 tons
of concentrates per four-weekly period,
or around 390 tons per annum.
However, the chairman indicated at
the annual meeting on June 30 that by
the end of September production rates
were expected to rise to 10 tons per
week, increasing to design capacity of
12 tons per week (624 tons per annum)
by the end of 1966. Assuming that the
concentrates are 70 percent tin, pro-
duction of tin in concentrates would
then be over 430 tons per annum, which
figure compares favorably with current
production from the larger and more
established producers. For instance,
Renison’s production is currently not
much above these levels, although ex-
pansion plans under way should in-
crease production more than fourfold
by 1970.
At the recent annual meeting, the
Kathleen Investments chairman said
that further geological work in the area
indicated reserves of 15 years or longer,
but the complete position would not be
known until detailed exploration work
had been carried out. The chairman
gave no actual figures on reserves or
grade.
Although on the above basis the
operation looks very promising, it is be-
lieved that the leases held cover numer-
ous small tin-bearing areas, in which
case costs of operation would be greater
than an operation based, for instance,
on a single large orebody.
Another small tin venture which has
experienced teething problems is
Loloma Mining Corporation N.L.’s allu-
vial tin operation at Stannary Hills,
near Irvinebank, in North Queensland.
In April, directors reported' that the
plant, which commenced operations in
August last year, was now operating
satisfactorily, although maintenance
activity and associated costs had proved
greater than originally estimated. In
addition, there were indications that
the overall recovery would not be as
high as originally anticipated (1.51 b. of
cassiterite—tin ore—per cubic yard).
In the first half-year of operations,
production amounted to 104 tons of
concentrates, but by the end of that
period production rates had increased
to levels approaching the 200-ton-per-
annum mark. Further testing and
appraisal activities are being carried
out; pending the results of these, a de-
cision on the erection of a second allu-
vial plant has been deferred. The com-
pany is also testing several other allu-
vial and lode tin-bearing areas in North
Queensland. If these tin operations
prove profitable, they will add to the
income the company receives from its
substantial investment portfolio, which
had a market value of over $5.26 mil-
lion at June 30, 1965. In 1964/65
profit derived from investments was
over $245,000.
Another company, Metals Explora-
tion N.L., has extensive tin interests
in several different areas, both on its
own account and in association with
other partners, perhaps the most im-
portant of these partnerships being its
25 percent interest in the Aberfoyle
Tin Development Partnership. Opera-
tions by its wholly owned subsidiary,
Australian Placer N.L., at Stannum in
northern N.S.W., are now looking up
after the failure last year of another
alluvial tin operation at Tingha as a
result of water shortages caused by the
drought.
J?ROM commencement of operations
at Stannum late last March to June
30, 47 tons of tin concentrates, worth
approximately $104,000, were produced
and directors pointed out that in May
and June slightly better than planned
production rates were achieved. On
this basis, annual production rates
should now be around 200 tons of con-
centrates. fn early July, directors said
that sufficient reserves had been proved
at Stannum and on other properties
to ensure that alluvial mining operations
would continue until at least 1970.
A further tin prospect which has
been receiving considerable attention
in recent months is the area at Walwa
in northern Victoria, where leases held
by Shaw River Alluvials N.L. and Kia
Ora Gold Corporation N.L. are being
worked by Oil and Minerals Quest N.L.
under an agreement whereby OMQ will
receive 25 percent of the gross value of
tin iron. The partners have reported
that substantial quantities of payable
ore exist and plan to install a new
plant (replacing the pilot plant) cap-
able of handling 50 tons of ore per
hour. However, at this stage, in-
sufficient information has been pub-
lished to enable an assessment to be
made of this venture.
A company which is testing tin pros-
pects in the New England district of
N.S.W. and also in North Queensland
is Northwest Tantalum N.L. (the com-
pany name is now being changed to
AMAD N.L.). Initial testing of one of
these prospects at Mt. Poverty in
Queensland has revealed a potential
orebody of a possible size of 10,000
tons per vertical foot, with a recovered
grade of 0.24 percent tin metal. Further
testing is being carried out.


A A 20 8
■
m
r
-
r
■
■
SIZE IS NOT THE TRUE
MEASURE OF A GRINDING WHEEL!
You don’t measure a grinding wheel merely by its physical dimensions.
There’s a lot more to it than that. Knowledge, technical experience,
service ... priceless ingredients which only Australian Abrasives can
provide ... are equally essential considerations in the measurement
of a grinding wheel. A.A. Sales Engineers and their Distributors are
anxious to prove this to you. If you have a grinding or abrasive mach-
ining problem in your plant, send this advertisement to us on your
letterhead. We’ll send a technical expert to you immediately ~. and|
his service will cost you nothing. j
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
Australian Abrasives Pty. Ltd. 302 Parramatta Rd., Auburn, N.S.W. 648 2361
COMMODITIES
Less Buoyancy
for Tin?
THE long-term outlook for tin, while
still bright, may not be as buoyant
as forecast a year ago. Supply
has lagged behind demand since 1957,
in which year London Metal Exchange
prices began to rise.
In 1957 world mine production of
tin (excluding the Communist bloc,
whose net influence on the world figures
is not large) was 158,200 tons, exceeding
use by 15,100 tons. In 1958 production
was 121,100 tons, and consumption
136,000 tons, N a deficit of 14,900 tons,
following production cuts in most major
producing countries.
In 1965 mine output was 149,200
tons, or 14,100 tons below consump-
tion. Last year net exports of tin to
the Communist bloc totalled 2200 tons,
leaving a world deficit of 16,300 tons.
(According to the International Tin
Council other estimates of the position
range between 13,000 and 20,000 tons.)
In the first quarter of this year the
West’s production deficit was 2700 tons
(again on the ITC’s figures), compared
with 6300 tons in the first three months
of 1965. If this trend continues the
deficit for the year will be less than
half of last year’s.
In the short term this is of rather
academic interest, as the U.S. Govern-
ment is selling its Korean War stock-
piles at free market prices with the
only limit being a (high) quota. The
quota for the year to March 31 next
is 28,000 tons. Although actual sales
are running well below this level, any .
production shortfall will be well
covered.
Thoughts that production would not
be able to overtake consumption be-
fore the exhaustion of the U.S. surplus
have been often expressed over the
past year. At present, less than 80,000
tons are available for disposal from
the stockpiles. But on the latest pro-
duction-consumption figures this may
last until the gap is closed.
The problem is that while it is agreed
that tin is not as abundant (in com-
mercial grades) as the other base
metals, there is considerable doubt
about exactly how production levels
will move in future.
At present, many areas in Malaysia
are nearing exhaustion, while much of
the recent production lift comes from
small miners operating on high-cost
deposits. On the other hand, Thailand
has talked optimistically of becoming
the leading producer, with sea-dredging
as one major source of tin.
Consumption, too, has its uncertain-
ties, though, barring a major break-
through on the canning front, tin’s
qualities seem set to assure steadily
rising demand.
Production trends will probably be
the vital figures for tin in coming years.


Share
Par
1 Div.
1 Year
1 Week
1 Fri.
1 1966
Turnover
1 Yield %
Valuel cents
I ago
1 ago
I close
]High |Low
1 Syd.
| Melb.
1 Div.lEarn.
METALS
AND OILS
Abarfoyle
.50
2
1 1 88; 2 401 2 32| 2 58| 1.9C
1 7,8001 5,7001 0.9
Ampol Exp.
.50
|
| 1 lOj 1.19| 1.17| 1.45| .85
3,800 12,9001
Assoc. Min.
.50
i 15
1 4.151 5 20] 5 201 5.521 4.8C
1 100| 850 2.9
A.O.G.
.50
1 2.33| 2 621 2.66! 2.81| 2.2
>1 11,9001 1,7001
B.H. South
.50
1 12
1 2.301 2 601 2 56 2.9(
2 2'
21.20C
17.800
C. R. A.
.50
1 8
| 3.56| 5.56, 5.42
5 82
3 92
17,150
9,665
' 1 5
3 9
C’wlth Min.
1.00
7
i 1.801 2.651 2 5'
2.7'
1.9(
2,700
6,200
3 1
5 4
h. 1. Scheel.
.50
1 10
1 1 401 2.32| 2.2C
3 25
1.8<
6,900
8,200
4 5
Mount Isa
.50
i 5
! 3 631 4 401 4 25
4 55
3.92
1 24,000
23,450
1 2
1 6
Mt. Morgan
1.00
1 12
1 1.901 2.651 2.56
2.9C
1.90
i 13,800
12,850
4 8
9.2
Mt. Lyell
.25
! 12
1.0C
1 1.471 1 4-
1.50
1 25
17,900
23,400
1 7
3.7
New B.H.
.62
1 38
4 151 5 001 5.0'
5.5(
4 42
| 10,650
1,920
j 7.5
10.7
Oil Search
.50
1
• 22| .351 .15
2(
.12
[ 16,150
3,000
Renison
.50
1 10
5.891 7 58! 7 4C
7.76
5 OC
600
1.3
Santos
.25
1
1.851 2 501 2 45
3 0<
1 40
2,700
West. Min.
.50
1 10
2.701 5.201 5 02
5.46
2.45
1 6,350
8,550
2.0
2 2
Woodside
.50
i
.291 .781 .88
.89
.24
| 19,600
25,200
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
I 4.16
1.08
1 1.091 1.10
1.10
1.00
31,700
17,600
3.8
8 6
Adams, W.
1.00
| 12.5
1 3.20
1 2 24! 2 1C
2.9C
2.10
3,800
1,200
6.0
9.6
Adel. Steam
.50
i 4.25
1 .7(
J .71
1 . 7C
.80
.64
2,800
400
6.1
7.8
Advertiser
.50
i 5
1 2.11
1 1.85
1 1.82
2.50
1.67
2.7
5.3
Alien. S.
1.00
10
1 8E
I 1.621 1 66
2.1C
1.56
400
6.0
8.9
Allied Mills
.50
6
1 1.781 3.821 1.75
1.92
1.67
6,400
100
3 4
8.2
Amala. Chem.
.50
, 5.65
.891 75
1 .72
1 50
.69
2,700
1,600
7.8
11.3
A.W.A.
.50
i 8
2.651 2.05
1 2.05
2 42
1.87
11,400
3,000
3.9
7.0
Ampol
.50
, 7
.99
.68; .68
1.02
.67
34,850
24,500
10 3
12 4
Ansett
.50
i 5
.73
.741 .73
.83
.72
22,150
12,400
6.8
13.1
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.35
1.6C
I 1.62
1.70
1 43
4,400
6,400
3 1
5.9
Assoc. Pulp
1.00
9
1,56
1.45
1 1.45
1.74
1.37
6,900
12,600
6 2
7 5
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
5.15
6.26
6.26
6.30
5.65
250
2 8
5.4
A.K. Cement
.50
5
1.45
1.44
' 1.37
1 62
1.20
9,250
4,900
3,6
6 4
Aust. Chem.
1.00
10
2.65
1 751 1 76
.2 55
1.50
1,650
1,800
5.7
7.9
A.C.I.
2.00
20
5.53
5 92
5.82
6.12
5.40
7,500
8,300
3.4
6.9
Aust. Fert.
2.00
20
5.50
4.25
4 15
5 20
4.10
1,000
500
3 9
6.9
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1.43
1.41
1 50
1 52
1.22
9,500
3,800
5 0
9 7
A.P. M,
1.00
8.75
1.61
1.67
1 57
1.87
1.51
11,900
23,700
5 7
8.0
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3.03
3 55
3 55
3 55
3.15
1,800
5.6
6.1
A.U.C.
1 00
10
4.05
3.9C
3 90
4 05
3.75
200
2.6
8 3
Bank Adel,
1.00
10
2 55
2.43
2.40
2 46
2.15
1,100
4.2
7.0
Bank N.S.W.
2,00
20
5 78
5.36
5 36
5 68
5 02
10,050
4,850
3.7
7.1
Bellambi
.50
5
2.1C
2.0C
1 90
2 44
1 85
1,800
2 6
8 9
Barlei
3 00
15
2.85
2.93
2 85
3.30
2.85
2,700
5 3
11.3
B.'M. 1,
.50
7.5
1.60
1.64
1.58
1 87
1 52
10,000
5,100
4 7
7 0
Bonds Ind.
.50
5
1.20
1.05
1 05
1 16
.98
4,900
4 8
9 8
Boral
.50
10
2.50
1.98
1.96
2 40
1.83
21,850
19,200
5.1
6 9
Borg Warner
1.00
6
2.43
1.78
1 70
2.05
1.70
400
3 5
8.7
Braa Cotton
.50
5
.71
.58
57
.69
.56
16,500
5,000
8 8
12 3
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.88
1.86
1.78
1 92
1.67
17,600
5,100
4.2
7 2
Brit. Tobaceo
1.00
12
1.68
2.41
2 38
2 46
1.77
15,900
11,250
5.0
7.6
B.H.P.
2.00
18 4
5,25
6.28
6 40
6 54
4 54
82,738
109,750
2 9
4,8
Bruck Mills
.50
5
.60
.67
.69
.73
55
2,100
8,300
9.1
12.3
Burns Ph i Ip
1.00
10
3 83
4.16
4.10
4 20
3.65
6,800
3,500
2 4
6 4
C.U.B. "Z"
1.00
13
3.70
3.80
3 85
3.90
3.40
1,700
7,400
3 4
5.9
Carp.. W. R.
.50
7.5
2 46
2.48
2 50
2.75
2 41
51,400
3,200
3 0
6 2
Carrier Air
.50
4
.70
.65
58
.80
.53
5,500
• 1,700
6.9
13.7
C'maine Perk
1 00
17
6.00
6.30
6 15
6 50
5,93
2,300
250
2.8
5 2
Chamberlain
.50
6.25
1.55
1.47
1.52
1 52
1.23
10,500
4.1
19,5
Clyde Ind.
.50
7,5
1.06
.90
.91
1.10
.90
19,100
2,200
8 2
13.0
Coal Allied
.50
5 ■
1.00
1.51
1 47
1.56
1.26
8,200
700
3.4
9 5
Coles. G. J.
.50
5.5
1.39
1.32
1 30
1.41
1.20
28,650
44,350
4.2
6 4
C S.R.
1.00
12.5
3.13
3,10
2 98
3,26
2 72
33,750
24,000
4 2
7.7
C A.G.A.
1.00 ■
10
.76
1.57
1.59
1.65
1.30
6,750
3,900
6 3
8.9
C B.C,
1.00
10
2.53
2 37
2 40
2,65
2.15
11,350
4 2
7.3
C.B.A.
1.00
10
2.13
2.12
2 09
2 27
2.02
, 2,100
4,250
4.8
6 8
Cnm. Union
.50
4,25
1 40
1.24
1 24
1 44
1.12
3,100
3 4
5.1
C. 1. G.
1.00
11
3.50
2.75
2.68
3.32
2 55
5,900
4,700
4.1
10 1
Concrete Ind,
.50
.50
.28
28
.48
.25
26,450
7,300
16,1
Consol. iPress
.50
6.25
3.68
2.48
2 52
3.40
,2,38
2,300
4 0
7.9
Containers
2 00
16
2 75
2.73
2 68
2 82
2 58
1,700
3,800
6 0
9,7
Courtaulds
1 00
5
.78
.55
51
.75
.51
8,250
8,000
9 8
13 3
Crane, G, E.
1.00
12.5
4 10
5.00
4.95
5.20
4.10
2,600
2 5
7 2
Cresco
2.00
20
5.70
5.00
5 00
6 25
4.90
3,2
5 6
Cust. Cred.
.50
5
.68
.86
.85
.86
,63
17,000
18,100
5.9
9 8
Cyclone
1.00
10
1 75
1 08
1 10
1.48
1 04
3,900
8,500
9 1
21 6
Dalgety
2.50
25,5
4 85
5 08
5.10
5 10
4 60
50
50
5.0
9.4
D.F.C.
2.00
23
6 40
6.20
6.20
6 55
6.20
3.7
7,6
Drug Houses
1.00
10
1 63
1,88
1 85
1.93
1,58
3,600
7,100
5 4
7 7
Dunlop
1.00
8
1.91
1.33
1.31
1 65
1 20
12,700
14,800
6 1
10.1
E.M.I.
.50
7.5
2.30
1.97
1 93
2 15
1 75
100
100
3 8
9,4
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
18
2 OS
2 56
2 50
2 56
2 12
13,950
12,200
7.2
.8 7
Elders, G. M.
1.00
10
2.20
2.52
2.50
2 53
2 01
8,300
5,700
4 0
9.0
Fleotronlc "B"
1.00
10
1.11
.70
.69
1 04
.69
5,500
12,500
14 5
19 4
Email
.50
3
63
,44
43
.51
37
137,400
14,800
7 0
7 2
E S.A.
2.50
14 69
4.68
6.00
6 00
6 00
5 20
2 5
7.2
Evans Deakln
.50
6.25
1.30
1.27
1 25
1 40
1.25
2,500
5 0
8.4
Fairfax, J.
.50
8,5
2.75
2 30
2 31
2 80
2 10
5,250
2,000
3.7
5 0
Fairy me ad
1,00
6
2 181
1.501
1.50
2 10
1 45
2,300
100
4 0
Felt. Text.
.50
5
.85
.54
,53
.69
,50
22,500
16,200
9,4
13 4
Fibre Cont.,
.50
6
1.70
1,31
1 30
1.40
1 23
3,100
4 6
8 8
Fielding, J(
1.00
17.5
3 75
3.70
3 70
3.72
2 43
600
4.7
6,8
Gen. Credits
.50
4
.56
.57
.56
.60
.50
4,400
4,400
7.1
10 7
Gen. 'Ind.
2.00
12
1.20
1.29
1 28
1.38
.95
7,400
500
9 4
18 9
Gollin
.50
4,5
.70
.77
.78
.88
.70
100
4,500
5 8
11 4
Gordon Goteh
.50
10
2.53
2.08
2 15
2.70
1 17
300
2,200
4.7
6 4
Grace Bros,
.50
6 25
1.50
1.76
1 75
1.91
1 68
16,200
3.6
6 7
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
; Week
Friday
| Week
Friday
All ords . .
333 12
330.45
107 17
106 03
50 Leaders .
112 60
111 49
Banks . ,
169 21
168 14
110 36
110 23
Other Fin. .
510 92
513 22
71.17
70 90
Pastoral .
242 27
242 40
128 ,05
127 11
Transport
49.4 49
491.51
100 13
98,42
Retails (M'ehants)
347,59
344 53
98 58
97.71
Service* , .
45 04
44 61
Foods
175 61
173 63
107 77
106 59
Textiles . .
175.34
173 66
74 03
72 47
Chemicals .
330.56
325 25
82 18
81 07
Electrical' . .
413,45
410 68
60 89
61,03
Paper . . .
105 62
104 54
Building . .
682 63
673 22
91 22
90.99
Fuel Power
167,83
167 27
Automotive .
773,38
746 79
77.91
75 87
Steel, Eng. .
488 1 8
497 49
121 32
121.85
Non-ferrous .
■
1267.37
1235 69
214 52
209.18
OIL
SUGAR
Week
Friday
| Week
Friday
| - ago
| last
ago
last
Br’stmne . .
150,63
152 22
114,25
118.30
MsWourne .
124 71
127.60
Share
Par
I Div.
1 Year
[Week
Fri.
1 1966
I Yield %
Valuel cents
1 ago
1 ago
close
|High |Low
1 Syd.
| Melb.
| Div.|Ea'rn.
Hardie, J.
Healing, A. G
1.00
1 10
| 5.381 4.92| 4 90| 5.06
1 621 .271 .261 .58
1 4 40|
1 1,600
1 2.01 7.8
.50
12.5
19 1 7,000
10,000
I 32 7
Herald, W.T.
.50
1 4.80
4.54| 4.501 5.22
1 A
35! 4,600
1 11,100
2.8
3.8
.50
12 5
1 .35
.281 29| .36
i
Zi
1 10.600
2,250
13 6
Humes
1.00
2.85
1 2.50| 2.50! 2 9C
2
10
600
3,200
5.0
8.1
Huttons
.50
5
.92
I .89| ,92| 1 0t
38!
90 C
4,000
5.4
10.5
1. A. C.
.50
5.9
.89
.93
.92 .9t
7b
9.600
8,300
6 4
10.6-
2 00
15
4.501 3.66| 3.66; 4 32
i 3
60! 4.100
3,750
4 1
5.7
inter. Resist.
.50
6.25
1.401 .84
85; 1 4b
I-
.831 3.300
300
7 4
9.5
Jones, David
.50
6.75
1.43
1.40
1.391 1.63
3 50! 4 10
1
371 32.800
3,200
4.9
8.7
Jones, Henry
1.00
10
3.90
3.55
3
40; 7.400
4,000
2.9
8.2
Kauri
.50
.43
.241 .24! .26
18! 8.400
12,200
Kelvinator
.50
7.5
2.25
1.88
1 90| 2.0E
1
35
500
600
3 9
8 9
Koitaki
.50
12.5
1.11
1.24
1 28! 1 3C
1
15
200
9 8
12.6
Lend Lease
.50
5
.99
1.10
1.07! 1.25
1
11
6,263
3,900
4.7
8.5
Life Savers
.50
8
2.50
2.50
2 52
1 2 55
2.24
2,550
1,100
3.2
4.5
Lysaght, J.
1.00
11
2.89
2.42
2 391 2 63
2
14
2,800
2,200
4.6
7.7
M.L.C.
2 00
31.68
6.75
8.20
8.141 8.40
7
6b
5,700
450
3.9
3.9
MacRobertson
1 00
1 8
1.79
1.32
1 5(
; 1 60
1
iC
1,800
6.500
5.3
5.8
Marrickvtlle
.50
7.5
1.23
1.64
1.111 1 55
1.03
36,700
5,500
6 8
7.7
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
1.84
2.03
2.06
2.08
1
82
4,650
2,400
2 4
5.1
M. N i c k 1 ess
1 00
12.5
3.33
2.80
2.9<
I 3- 2C
2
70
900
5,600
4 3
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7.5
1.55
1 16
1.18| 1.501 1
12
1,900
3,500
6 4
11.5
McPhersons
2.00
16.6
4 15
3.72
3 721 4 03| 3
4C
3,400
2,700
4 5
10.1
Millaquin
1.00
20
3.35
2.75
2 95! 3 18
2 6C
3,400
1,700
6.8
7.7
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.70
1.72
1 69 2 07
1
.6-
9,800
2,200
5 9
14 8
Minster
1.00
20
3 10
3 18
2 88! 5 68 3
04
3.800
8,700
6 9
11.5
Morris, Philip
2.00
24
5.70
7.30
7.161 7.50
6
20
550
250
r. 4
n.6
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.95
.69
63; . 8C
54
5,100
22,400
7 9
9.-9
Myer
.50
8.75
3.05
3.22
3 li
| 3 56
2
85
9,200
20,200
2 8
6.4
Myttons
.50
6
1.58
1.55
'1 55
! 1 64
1
42
600
8,000
3.9
8.4
N.Z. Forest
1.25
9.56
2.90
2.98
2 97
1 3 03
2
60
850
3,500
3 2
8 6
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
2.20
1.93
1 92
2 10
1
87
3,600
6,500
5.2
5 5
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2.75
2.42
2 38 2.45
2
25
1.650
8.600
4 2
•8.1
Nat. Dairy
2.25
26.7
40.00
38.00
38 00(42 00138
00
2.6
5.6
News
.50
5
1.50
1.44
1 45! 1 82
1
36
500
550
3.4
7.1
N.Z. Ins.
1 25
11.5
3.05
2.75
2 75
1 2 82
2.60
51
6 2
Olympic
50
5
1 00
.71
72! 8C
64
2,750
12.200
6 9
13.7
Optical
1 00
15
4 85
4.20
4.26
4 70
4
n
1.100
3.5
7.0
Overseas
.50
5.5
1.12
1.02
1 05
1.16
1
00
700
4.300
5 2
10.7
P.G.H.
.50
8
1.75
1.20
1 It
1 60
1
if
1,400
6 8
11.3
Peko
.50
8
1.59
2.59
2 4:
2 60
1
85
28,350
12,100
3.0
5.2
Penfolds
.50
6.25
1.38
1.80
1 75 2 03
1.50
600
3 6
4 9
Perp. Trustee
2.00
17
3.50
3.60
3.60i 3.90
3.55
800
5.0
5.9
PetersvMIe
.20
2.5
.49
.62
.661 .66
55
42,950
96.800
3 8
5 5
Peters, W.A.
.50
6.25
1.79
1 50
1 50! 1.93
1
50
650
4 2
7.0
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6.25
1.34
1.43
1 46
1 62
1
37
35.800
3,200
4 3
8 1
14 2
Prestige
.50
5
1.25
.86
.86
1 05
.80
1.700
7.3
Provincial Td.
.50
3 5
1.28
1.15
1 161 1 30
1.001 8,050
4 7
10 4
.50
5
1.75
1.20
1.15
: 155
1
08
6.600
1,700
4.3
15,6
<3
’land Can
.50
5
1.13
1.01
1.02
1 13
92
200
4 9
8 9
C
’land Cement
2.00
20
7.28
7.80
7 80
7 80
7.00
1.050
Z 5
5 2
9
’land Ins.
1.00
12 5
4.05
4.15
4 151 4 50
4
00
900'
3 0
7.1
Q
'land Press
1.00
16
5.35
5.05
5 00! 5 45
4
75
1.000
3.2
5.7
Reeas
.50
7
1.78
1.52
1 5?
1.74
1
45
5,300
4 6
7.7
Repco
.50
7.5
2.38
2.22
2 12
2 24
1
95
19,800
36,200;
3 5
5.9
Rocla
,50
7
2.11
1.97
1.90 2 14
'1,78
1,400
4,300
3.7
6.4
Rothmans
1.00
20
3 45
2,80
2 69
3.15
2
63
3,000
1,400
7.4
12.3
S.A. Rubber
.50
5 62
1.40
1.00
,93
1 25
93
3,000
7,400
6 0
15.2
S.T.P, Hold.
.50
6.25
.95
.98
,96
1,00
.88
3.300
3,100
6.5
15 0
Schweppes
. 60
5.75
1.43
It 76
1 76
1 85
•1.45
800
2.000
3 1
4 9
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2.15,
2 53
2 53
2 55
2
30
700
3 0
8 2
Simpson Pope
.50
1
.47!
.321
,31
.46
27
1,300
1,400
3 2
9 8
Sleigh, H. C.
.50 |
5 ]
■ 69|
,58;
58
72
55
54,650
19,200
8 6
11.9
Smith, How.
2 00
10
2.55
2.78|
2 65
2 75
7
39
2.000
5,900
3.8
6.5
Softwood
1.00
10
3 00
2,301
2.30
3 25
7
07
300
1.400
4 3
23,0
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.25
14.16
3.70|
3.70(
3,60
3.85
2
06
5,700
3 9
7.3
Steamships
.50 i
6,66
1,00
1 051
1 09
1 09
,88
21,050
12.900
6 1
9 9
Stedman, J.
.50 |
7.5 |
2.00!
1.85|
1 85
1.90!
1
60
4,300
4 1
7 5
Swan Brew.
.50
3.12
2.49;
2 71|
2 70
2 75
7
21
8,950
11,900
2 4
3.3
Tarax
.50
6
.831
1 13!
1 35
1 35
1
00
4,900
22,800
4 4
7 5
Taubmans
.50
8
1 301
,97|
86
1 18
.84
3,600
700
9.3
10,8
TV Corp.
1.00
20
2.701
2,50|
2 50
2 75
2
18
1,400
2,300
8 0
8.0
Thiess
.50
,471
. 671
.70
76
i>3
9,750
9,2
Tooheys
.50 |
4 251
98|
1 09|
1.09
1 21
1
17
20,900
3 9
6 0
Tooth
1 00
15 75
4 631
5.201
3
5 70
4
90
7,700
3,640
3.1
4.4
Union Carb,
1.00
10
3 051
3,80
3 85
4 00
3
bfl
2,700
400
2 6
5.3
U.E. Box
.63
5.84
1.501
1.20
1 20
1,48
1.
20
100
4 8
11 6
Walker, F. J.
1,00
12,5
1.451
1.68
1 58
1 73
1
25
1,700
7 9
8 1
Waltons
.50
6.5
.88
1.17
1,15
1.23
.85
20,200
14,400
5 4
8.7
Webster, A. G.
Will'ms, F. W.
Woolworths
.50
8
1.24
1.25
1 23
1 50
1
20
500
6 1
12.4
1,00
10
3.351
4,00.
4,12
4 12
2.
95
24,950
2 4
0.9-
.50 |
6
1.59|
1.381
1 36
1 44
1.
29
27,050
26,200
4.4j
6.0
LONDON COMMOI
r PRICES
-Year
Ago
Month Ago
Week
Ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wire bars, ton . .
Gold, 07
£ 4301,',
£ 12/12/3
£ 590%
£ 12/12/4%
£ 554
£ 12/12
£ 511
£ 12/12/2
Lead, cash, ton
£ 97%
£ 97 s/s
£ 93’
1121/i
£ 94 9-16th
Silver, troy, 07
lll%d.
112 d.
d.
112Va
1',
Tin, cash, ton
Wolfram, unit,
e.I.f.
£ 1453Vs
£ 9 Vie £ 9%
£ 1278%
£ 13- £ 14
£ 12661/4
£ 13-£ 14
£ 125!
£ 12%-
%
£ 14
Zinc, cash, ton . .
£ no
£ 97V«
£94}
a
£ 94’/ a
Wheat, Australia, ton . .
£25
£ 26 11 -16th
£ 27 9-i
6th
£ 27 9-16th
Linseed oil, ton .
£ 94
£ 851/,
£
86V
06/6
2
£ 81%
Cocoa. 50 kilos .
111/3
201/9
2
212/9
Coffee
withdrawn
withdrawn
248/-
248/
-
Cotton, American, middling,
lb. . . .
23
2d.
23.6d,
23,85d.
22.6d.
Desiccated Coconut, ton
£ 172%
£ 140
£ 135
£ 135
RubbeV, lb. .
21d.
20d.
20
1-16d.
19%d.
£ 163/4
Sugar, ton
£ 20
£ 17 1 /,
£ 17%
Tea, quality, lb, .
Wool Tops, 64s, lb.
'
4/-6/
112d .
4
/7-6/1
23d.
4/3-6/4
123d.
123d.
(All
figure*
in sterling)
OVERSEAS INDEXES
1
London
New York
| Tokyo
| "Financial Times'
] Dow
Jones
1 D.Jonev
| Inds. | Secs. |
Gold
| Inds.
| Ralls | Avge.
Jan. 3, 1966 , ,
I 338
7 | 78.741
61
1
1 965 541 247.3811430
13
1966 High ,.
| 377
i | 79 43|
65
2
1 995 15
1 271.7211588.73
1966 Low . . .
! 318
1 | 73 77!
58
4
| 847 38| 220 19 1412
93
Month ago , ,
' 363
30! 75 09|
58
6
1 894 04! 233.30!1507
11
Week ago ,,
338
70) 74 42 1
59
9
! 869,15! 234
77 1475
39
Latest
| 318
1 74 20|
59.6
| 847 38| 220
1911499,00
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
(INDUSTRIAL
MINING
INDUSTRIAL!
MININS
Sales I
Value
Sales ,| Value
Sales
Value | Sales | Value
Vol.
$
Vol.
$
Vol,
Vol.
5
1000 |
1000
1000
| 1Q00
1000
1000 1 1000 | 1000
Week before
12967,114799.11
1145.21 1089.4
2896
I 4976 1
897 1 1019
Week to Friday
2710.913835 1
1160 31 102,6.3
2372
| 3413 j
1137 |
B74
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend , . 6.38
MELBOURNE
dividend 5 22
earnings 8.24
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend 5 58
earnings 7.31
NEW YORK (S 8< P)
dividend 3.25
earnings 6.23
CTWEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short , . . . 4 94 492
•Medium .... 5 13 5.13
Long 5 25 5.25


BALANCE SHEET
SUMMARIES
(S Ml
ILLION)
Year to June 30
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
127 0
149 0
156 8
Current liabilities
64 0
78.9
86.2
Net working capital
63.0
70.1
70.6
Land and buildings
37.7
43 8
46.2
Plant, etr.
7 3
8 2
8.7
1 nvestments
2 9
2.9
2.9
Total capital
110.9
125.0
128.4
represented by:
Loan capital
42.1
50.4
49.0
Long-term provisions
4.7
5.6
5.2
Minority interests
0 5
0 6
0.6
Preference capital
8.2
8.2
8.2
Ordinary capital
23 6
25.1
25.7
Reserves
31.8
35.1
39.7
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (S ’OOO)
Interest on loans
2225
2576
2939
Depreciation
2820
3146
3366
Tax provided
2960
5320
4752
Minority interests
40
52
9
Preference dividend
279
279
274
Earnings
3851
5367
4803
Ordinary dividends
2125
2510
2565
Surplus
1726
2857
2238
Earning rate %
16 3
21 4
18.7
Dividend rate %
9 0
10 0
10.0
Dividend yield %
4 3
3.9
4 8
High p r i ce
6.40
7.60
5.95
Low price
4.20
5.40
4.52
NEWINGTON COLLEGE
STANMGRE (& KILLARA)
The Methodist G.P.S.
SCHOLARSHIPS for
ENTRY to FIRST YEAR
(secondary) 1967
FOUR SCHOLARSHIPS (each year)
entitle the holders to free tuition for
the full secondary course. Applicants must
be under the age of 13 on 31st December,
1966.
SCHOLARSHIP EXAMINATION: Satur-
day, Ist October, at 9 a.m. at the
school.
APPLICATIONS close on Friday, 19th
August. Application forms and fur-
ther information may be obtained
from the Headmaster's Secretary.
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
. G. North, D. A. North,
. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,.
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Properties Hit by the Drought
Dalgety's reliance on Australian business
AT some time last year, the ordinary
shares of Dalgety and New Zea-
land Lean Limited sold as low as
$4.52. This year, despite a much lower
profit, the low point has been $4.60,
and the last sale took place at $5.08.
The seller is now asking for $5.18, but
the market closed without a buyer. At
this price, the dividend yield is, in my
view, 5.8 percent, but at least one
highly regarded daily quotes the yield
in its share-price list as 2.9 percent. I
assume that this is after deducting U.K.
income tax at the rate of 41.25 percent
from a 10 percent dividend rate.
Dalgety has paid its dividends in
the past without deducting U.K. tax,
but has deducted tax since the interim
dividend payment of this current finan-
cial year. Unless my understanding of
taxation principles is astray, the Aus-
tralian resident should be able to re-
claim the U.K. tax deducted by the
company or, at least, he would not have
to pay double tax. The question, how-
ever, is raised whether it is proper for
a company to be subjected to U.K.
tax when it seems that only about
4\ percent of its total business arises in
the U.K.
Dalgety first published details of turn-
over in 1964, giving figures very similar
in form to those published by Elder
Smith but showing also the subdivision
between the countries in which the
group operated. The percentages for
the three years for which turnover fig-
ures are available are as follows:
. , 1962/3 1963/4 1964/5
Australia 60.7 60 6 60.5
New Zealand 28.6 28 2 29 9
East Africa 5 6 6 1 5 0
United Kingdom 5.1 5.1 4.6
In the chairman’s review, the point
is made quite strongly, both in 1964
and again in 1965, that the group buys
and sells on its own account and on the
account of clients, and in the latter case
the remuneration is based partly on
quantities and partly on values. How-
ever, the greater part of wool, land,
livestock, and produce sales were on
behalf of clients. The figures for the
past three years compared with Elders
are as follows:
, $ MILLION
Year fo June 30 1963 1964 1965
Wool: Dalgety 220.4 270 5 219 4
_ Elder 203 3 243 8 197'0
Produce: Dalgety 80.2 95 5 88 5
. . , Elder 3.4 3.5 2 1
Livestock and Land:
Dalgety 264.8 319.6 351.4
.. l El^ r n. , 191-2 236 0 230 0
Merchandise: Dalgety 125 6 149 6 149 9
Elder 70.4 78 8 8918
Insurance: Dalgety 7.7 8 8 9 4
Elder 3.8 4.1 4^4
The first thing that is apparent from
these figures is that Dalgety’s sales are
consistently greater than those of Elder’s
in all fields and in each of the three
years. I have already pointed out that
the sales outside of Australia and New
Zealand are not of any great signifi-
cance, so even if the margins obtained
in East Africa and in the United King-
dom were very much different from
those obtained in Australasia the effect
on gross revenue would hardly be
noticeable. A comparison of the total of
the sales in the categories shown in the
schedule above indicates that Dalgety
sold 48 percent more than Elder in
1962-3, 49 percent more in 1963-4, and
57 percent more in 1964-5.
The surprising feature is that group
net profit before tax, depreciation, and
interest on long-term debt was by no
means in these proportions. In 1962-3
Dalgety’s operating income was 29 per-
cent greater than Elders, 30 percent
greater in 1963-64 and only 19 percent
greater in 1964-65. The strange fact is
that, although Elder’s sales fell in 1964-
65, as did Dalgety’s (but to a lesser
extent), the net profit before tax, de-
preciation, and interest actually in-
creased.
,r pHIS suggests that the real profit is
made outside the area of selling
goods on commission and there would
only seem to be two avenues open. One
would be the running of the company’s
own properties and the other the pro-
vision of finance to “the man on the
land.’ It is likely that Dalgety has
larger property interests than Elders
and, so far as the 1964-65 year is con-
cerned, it is significant that 16 out of
18 properties listed in the annual report
were situated in Queensland and New
South Wales, the States where the
drought has been the most severe. It
appears, also, that half of these prop-
erties were in the most affected areas of
north-west New South Wales and south-
west Queensland.
Elder Smith seems to have invested a
rather greater proportion of its total
assets in “advances and other debtors,”
and if we make the comparison on the
same basis as in Elder’s last annual
report the figures are as follows:
PER £ OF TOTAL ASSETS
. , , Dalgety Elder Smith
■Advances and other Debtors 10/9 12/3
Premises, plants, etc. 5/1 3/9
15/10 16/-
It is also worthwhile extending this
comparison to the liabilities side of the
balance sheets:
PER £ OF TOTAL LIABILITIES
Shareholders’ funds 8/1 10/-
Secured loans and preference shares 5/4 /II
Bank credit 3 /1 1/11
Clients accounts, deposits and trade
creditors 4/2 67-
Provisions 1/4. 3/3
These figures show that Elder Smith
is much lower geared than Dalgety
and also that Dalgety relies to a far
greater extent on bank credit than
Elder. While the cost of long-term bor-
rowings is clearly stated in the profit
and loss accounts, it is difficult to make
any worthwhile deduction regarding the
cost of short-term credit; I would
assume that the difference is not
material.
On the basis of the expected gross
dividend rates of 12 percent, Dalgety’s
shares seem quite attractive in compari-
son with Elder’s so far as the current
dividend yields are concerned. A com-
parison of earnings yields is much more
difficult because, firstly, the amount
that will be deducted in U.K. corpora-
tion tax and “overseas” company tax
is as yet unknown and, secondly, we do
not know if Dalgety has also been
making substantial “doubtful debt” pro-
visions. On the basis of the disclosed
earnings for 1964-5, Dalgety’s shares are
selling at 10.8 times earnings. This
would suggest that Elder Smith’s shares
are more attractive.


AUSTRALIAN PRINTERS
A view through the Linofilm system at Offset Newspapers Pty. Ltd. These integrated units set type
photographically, make corrections and alterations automatically, and make up work into page form.
In the background can be seen the keyboard units which control all typographic functions.
Conpress Printing Ltd/s Halley-
Aller offset press, on which THE
BULLETIN is printed. Its color
cylinders work in close proximity,
thus allowing exact registration.


One of the latest versions of the Heidelberg Kora
offset machine, used by printer and publisher
Edwards and Shaw for reproductive work.
A four-color litho machine at the Halstead Press.
It handles such work as covers for magazines, book
illustrations, and colored wrapping paper.
At Unilever's new $6 million printing and packaging plant at North Rocks, near Sydney, a Bobst-
Champlian heavy duty rotogravure press is pictured printing carton board at high speed in seven colors.


How to put 62 working
weeks into a year
X
1
-
:
the
beechcraft
Baron
industry's new time . *
machine.
It stretches every year into 62
working weeks. And once your
company owns a Beechcraft Baron,
your executives discover each week
has an extra day for seeing, decision-
making, working-as-they-fly, saving
money and time the dead time
they used to spend waiting for.other
people's airplanes and trains or
driving in cars.
The Baron is the ultimate in company
executive aircraft. 6 seats. Up to 242
m.p.h. Range over 11 00 miles.
Powerful, twin 260 or 285 h.p. fuel
injection engines. Retractable under-
carriage. Superb passenger comfort. And
an overall robustness of construction
that spells less time on maintenance,
more time in the air and no worries
over flying onto rough airstrips in
outback places.
If you're running short on time and
long on work —here's a good way to
cheat a little. Buy yourself a Baron.
HAWKER DE HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Sole Beechcraft Distributors for Australia and
New Guinea.
} General Aviation Departments at:
Bankstown Aerodrome. N.S.W. Parafield
Aerodrome, S.A. Archerfield Aerodrome, Qld.
Jandakot Aerodrome, W.A. and
Civil Flying Services Pty. Ltd., Moorabbin, Vic.
Territory Airlines Ltd., Goroka, N.G.
1897/65
The Printing Revolution
THERE have never been so many
words printed in Australia—and
the traditional printing companies
are responsible for proportionately
fewer of them than ever before.
For the printed word appears more
often these days on packages than in
pamphlets, on boxes than in books.
Apart from the huge modern printing
plants operated by the daily news-
paper groups in Australia, most of
the biggest and best printeries in Aus-
tralia do not print words that people
sit down and read; their words are on
packets of cornflakes and cigarettes or
even on plastic bottles.
With the exception of the newspapers
and one or two others, the bulk of
dramatic re-equipment with expensive
new machines that is revolutionising
the Australian printing industry has
been overwhelmingly in the packaging
side of the business. In newspapers
there has been a burst of development
with automatic type-setting and with
offset printing being used in their maga-
zine activities.
Outside newspapers, there are a few
large printeries like Sydney’s Kenmuir
Press (the printing subsidiary of maga-
zine producer Publishers Holdings),
the Halstead Press (an Angus and
Robertson subsidiary), and Melbourne’s
Wilke and Co. (which prints “Time,”
“Life,” and the “Reader’s Digest” in
Australia) that are keeping pace with
the technological developments in the
“non-reading” sector of the- printing
industry.
These technological developments in
printing are having some serious effects
on the industry. They mean that
the bigger and more modern printeries
are doing an increasing proportion of
the work. So the hundreds of small
printers who make up the bulk of the
industry are not sharing in its growth.
And as the packaging part of the indus-
try grows, the role of the small man is
fast falling.
More important, most of the big new
plants have not been put up by printing
companies; they have been brought in
by companies like the Unilever and
Kellogg groups which make the pro-
ducts that go in the packages and have
decided they may as well make and
print the packages, too.
The result of this is that many
smaller printing companies that had
relied on this sort of business as a
solid part of their turnover have not
only lost it but also face some com-
petition from the spare capacity in these
big new plants. And the trend has not
ended., There seems every chance that
there will be more vertical integration
down the line by companies deciding
to make their packages and print them
as well as manufacturing what goes in-
side them— especially as requirements
of supermarkets mean that the cost
of the container in many cases is very
high in relation to its contents.
Printing is not only big business; it
is also one of the fastest growth sectors
in the economy. The printing and
allied trades make up the fourth biggest
industry group in Australia. For the
latest year in which figures are avail-
able, 1963-64, output was valued at
$470 million—a rise of 27 percent in
three years as its proportion of total
Australian output rose from 3.5 percent
to 3.8 percent. And its growth appears
to have continued at a fast rate since
then, although there has been evidence
of some excess capacity developing in
the fastest growing part of the business
—packaging.
Excluding newspapers and govern-
ment printing, the Australian printing
industry employs more than 50,000
persons in over 2370 plants ranging
from bookbinding and stationery
manufacture to plastic packaging. The
capital investment in plant and
machinery is very high at approxi-
matel $lB5O per employee. In the
t 0 Ju 1964 book value of plant
and machi used in the printing and
stationery industry was sl()sm. Addi-
tions and rep i acemen t s of s23m. were
double the amount of depreciation
allowed during the year.
'J'HE packaging part of the business has
seen remarkable advances in recent
times. Manufacturers want printing in
four colors, not only on paper and
cardboard but also directly on foil,
ca ns, and polythene.
Far and away Australia’s biggest
printer for packaging is Leigh-Mardon
Pty., 60 percent owned by British
Tobacco, 40 percent by Mardon Inter-
national, which does the packaging for
Imperial Tobacco and British-American
Tobacco in England. Leigh-Mardon’s
pro fi t f or t h e year to October 31, 1965,
was $1,025,200 on capital of $9 million,
The British Tobacco k ; inter-
devcloped when k ? ook *„ Interest
jn g T hin 1903 j and , his is now
, ke main printing and packaging sub-
subsidiary, situated at Kensington,
N g w y ’ others like McFarlane and
B of R p art (N .
S.W.), con-
’ flexible nackavimr D W
general'
m Pra h ra „ (Vic.); P. C.
£ rosier s duces carton ' lab ' e , ma
and g cards a( Moorabbin (y;/)
Asher and Co. Pty., of Melbourne,
daHses securk ? (or ch e)
.
pun mg.
Leigh-Mardon, with 1200 employees,
thus covers a wide range of printing
and packaging techniques in paper,
board, flexible films, tinplate, and
aluminium. One-third of its output is
for the tobacco industry. British
Tobacco’s growing interest in food
through the subsidiary Associated Pro-
ducts and Distribution Pty. provides a
home market for Leigh-Mardon.
Second to Leigh-Mardon in size in
the “non-reading” section of the
industry is Sands and McDougalls Pty.,
which employs about 1000 people. Its
main activity is printing for packaging,


Demondrille Shire Council's LWI6R on road construction, (N.S.W.)
■ raBnMi ' -vv*'v
* -r-s
'■" ' i£
/ v, '
ti
>**"“*«H
io m i hum
LW
That mighty little giant, the LWI6R Tractor, in common with all
other LW equipment, is built in Australia, by Australians with many
years of on-the-job experience.
Backed by the world-wide Le Tourneau-Westinghouse technical
service organisation, LW Tractors are doing a mighty job on a host
of major and minor projects under all conditions throughout the
Commonwealth and overseas. Here are a few of the many projects
on which Australian- made LW Tractors are in operatiom-
■ AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION, MALAYSIA ■ ROAD MAINTENANCE,
CONSTRUCTION AND SUB-DIVISION WORK THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA ■ TANK SINKING, THAILAND ■ COPPER MINING,
TASMANIA ■ ROAD CONSTRUCTION, INDIA, PAKISTAN, ANGOLA,
PORTUGAL, SOUTH AFRICA.
m
E for EXPORT
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINGHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Only earthmoving equipment manufacturer to receive
the Award for Outstanding Export Achievement
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW264.106


•• • • • * v • -
. . * .•- %* * *
•* •». .
. •
.•« \
.V ••• •• .• .V.
• • \v.
• • Xv!
•*
• • •* •..
•• • *:•••
• }
•••% •
• .•
• .
• # •/ •
«• •• v
fresh air comes in all shapes and sizes
The Carrier nameplate appears on air
conditioners of every shape and size. It’s your
guarantee of quality. It signifies an excellent
product, backed by the world-wide reputation
of the Carrier Organisation. No other
manufacturer of air conditioning equipment
can match the range, service or years of
experience of Carrier. This is why more people
select Carrier than any other make of
air conditioning system.
Is your name on one of the boxes?
FIRST NAME IN AIR CONDITIONING
1440/65X
but it also does commercial printing,
including books, envelopes, and
cheques. There are printeries and shops
in Adelaide and Perth, besides Mel-
bourne. As an exempt private com-
pany, profits are not revealed, but
paid capital is slm.
Unilever has its own printery, Inter-
pack Australia, at North Rocks
(N.S.W.), printing merchandise pack-
ages and labels for Unilever and out-
siders. A s4m. plant was opened in
February, 1964, to augment the plant
of Frearson’s Printing House, a 70-
year-old subsidiary in Adelaide, and
replace most of Unilever’s printing
operations at Balmain and Port Mel-
bourne. The products are mainly
packages for soap, detergent, tooth-
paste, and food. Interpack has around
170 employees.
Kellogg (Aust.) Pty. also does its own
printing and packaging. Macßobertson
(Aust.) Ltd., the listed confectioner,
has a wholly owned subsidiary, Color-
print Pty., which supplies labels, boxes,
cartons, wrappers, and display
materials.
WHILE the general trend is to greater
usage of a better pack, the extra
production possible from new, fast plant
has led to a condition of over-capacity.
Packagers consider the industry over-
equipped, and in recent months the
slackness in manufacturing generally
has led to a considerable slump in
packaging usage. But this is still the
real growth area of the industry.
Nevertheless there are sections of the
“reading” part of the printing business
here that are going ahead rapidly, par-
ticularly as a result of the trend to-
ward local printing of international
magazines that had previously been
imported.
One of the biggest in the field of
printing for reading matter is Wilke
and Co. Ltd., which recently won a
long-term contract for printing the
South Pacific edition of “Life” maga-
gine. It prints “Time,” “Reader’s
Digest,” “Vogue,” and the Melbourne
and Victorian country telephone books.
Wilke has a half interest in Publishing
Associates Pty., which owns the book-
selling and publishing activities of
Jacaranda Press, of Brisbane, and F.
W. Cheshire and Landsdowne Press,
of Melbourne. (The other 50 percent is
held by the London “Daily Mirror”
group.) Last February it bought out
Showprint Pty. and Press and Foils
Pty. and, four months later, Academy
Press Pty., giving Wilke the appearance
of going places faster than almost any
other in the trade. There are 200-300
employees.
The Pacific edition of “Newsweek”
is now produced by Angus and Robert-
son’s printing subsidiary, Halstead
Press Pty. A. and R. also has a Mel-
bourne subsidiary, J. C. Stephens Pty.,
which is a self-sufficient book manu-
facturer. This is another example of
the vertical integration in book pub-
lishing and printing mentioned in an
article on the Publishing Business (8.,
July 16).


Present Your prize-winners "Live " on
DON LANE’S “TONIGHT SHOW”
'
-
im M. - -
5 s
■
H
■
: 7
. ■
llli
■ ■ -.
ML
«]
■
H
. %■”-*!
igi
■■■l
Hi
§ i| fe
ant'i
Hi
*1
>■ •••.
t **
JBIMMS
I iitllii I
• fe
■■■■lll
n ■ 111 : m 111
W P
l 5»
n
'l£|l|lßßlßflilß|lM
r'
.
i
ill lillllii* H
V
mm
■'
iwc ;f
j BI %
yyfl#|g g »‘ .
v„ « >
I
SIT.
AND GIVE YOUR PROMOTION
EXTRA IMPETUS!
Why confine your prize-winning announcements to the
cold columns of a newspaper, when you can do it so
much better —so much more excitingly through the
warm, friendly personality of Don Lane on TCN-9?
On the “Tonight Show,” he brings the big prize-winners,
in person, to the public; which allows all the other
entrants to meet the successful competitors, and adds
a new dimension of believability to what was before,
just an advertising campaign. Colgates, one of the
most sagacious marketing companies in the country, are
well aware of the value of such presentation. They
know it is not only good for prestige, but good for
business, because of the extra mileage it gives to any
competition promotion.
Channel
A 3 N a AS
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Rd., Willoughby. 43 0444.
SALES: Sydney—Bth Floor, Telegraph House, Park St. 61-9931
Melbourne— 247 Collins St. 63-8336.
GSS3.


GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
0
TWO
YEARS
7%
FIVE
YEARS
7s
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 /a%
180-269 DAYS 5%%
270-360 DAYS 5 3 /a%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6Va%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 /a%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7Va%
TEN YEARS 7Va%
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
8643
MAN ON THE LAND
Living off a Poultry Farm
TO be a successful egg producer you
will need a farm big enough to
let you market nearly half a
million eggs a year. To approach this
level of production you will need a
flock of not less than 2500 birds, ol
which at least 2200 are layers capable
of averaging upward of 200 eggs each
per year. You will have to compete with
quite a few producers whose flock-
birds now average 230 eggs, and there
are some farmers whose birds lay 240
eggs a year. Not counting the cost of
the land, you will need $16,000 to
$lB,OOO to establish an enterprise of
this magnitude, which is the minimum
economic size.
This recommendation is based on
Victorian findings. That State’s
Department of Agriculture has been
keeping a close watch on the economics
of the industry over the past several
years. Consequently, it is able to
advise which managerial aspects of
poultry farming are crucial in view of
prevailing prices paid for eggs and the
costs of production. The latest results
from this continuing study are derived
from survey data collected during
1964-65. Copies of the complete report
of the Poultry Farm Management
Study, by Messrs. H. White and L. E.
Cozens, are available on request to the
Agricultural Economics Branch,
Department of Agriculture, Treasury
Place, Melbourne C 2.
, 'PHE study has shown that over the
past few years the .most significant
managerial changes involve less labor
and increased flock density. Thus, the
average Victorian egg producer now
spends only two hours’ work on each
layer per year, whereas until recently
he used to devote 2| hours. He has
d<>ne this by introducing automatic
feeding, improving the layout of the
farm, and by installing better equip-
ment generally. At the same time he
has made his flock more compact by
using group cages or special deep-litter
houses, allowing 2J to 3 square feet of
floor space per bird.
Victorian egg producers are striving
to reduce the labor component even
further. Those who are not concerned
with packaging hope to get time spent
per bird down to hours within the
next few years. This appears to be a
reasonable aim in view of the fact that
poultry farmers in California have now
streamlined their operations to the
point where each bird needs only 17
minutes’ attention per year.
Nevertheless, the Victorian economists
believe that the farmer who concen-
trates on getting more eggs per pound
of feed consumed is more likely to
increase this profit than by labor-saving.
Mr. W. Stanhope, the Department’s
senior poultry officer, has calculated
that an extra 21b. of feed per dozen
eggs amounts to an extra ton of feed
for each thousand dozen eggs produced.
On this basis a farm selling 35,000
dozen eggs a year would need an extra
35 tons of feed and this would cost in
the vicinity of $lB6O. Good birds should
not need more than 61b. of a typical
grain and meatmeal ration to make a
dozen eggs. Higher consumption rates
are due to birds of inferior strain or
plain waste through theft by wild birds,
rodents, and even humans. Pennywise
poultrymen, therefore, regularly per-
form the arithmetic of dividing the
number of eggs sold off the farm by
the number of pounds of feed brought
on to the farm. If the figure exceeds
six, or seven in the case of a low energy
ration of bran and pollard, he knows
he must look for more efficient birds or
ways of eliminating waste.


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER’S
NOTEBOOK
m
A dog’s life
is a great life aboard
the Queen Mary
This poodle is a seasoned
traveller. He’s made many
Atlantic crossings in both
Queen Elizabeth and Queen
Mary. The “dog hotel” on
the Queen Mary can accom-
modate twenty-six guests.
(Single or double kennels
are available.) The kennels
have removable teakwood
floors, a skylight for air and
ventilation and hot and cold
water. There is even an
eighty-foot exercise deck,
exclusively for residents.
Homo Sapiens are equally
well looked after. There are
35 public rooms aboard the
Queen Elizabeth and a
theatre seating 338 people.
Twelve hundred people look
after you on each of the
giant Queens. Three quar-
ters of the Cunard stewards
descend from seafaring
families.
"A's
At mealtime on the Cunard
Queens, you choose from a
menu which is the equivalent
of the combined menus of
forty leading restaurants on
land ... There are. more than
a dozen bars on each of the
Queens. You can choose from
forty brands of whisky. The
wine list is the largest afloat.
And you can celebrate with
any one of 21 kinds of vin-
tage champagne.
There is a tranquil library
with 5,000 books. Or if you
need toning up there is a
vast swimming pool and a
Turkish bath under the care
of a professional masseur.
Getting there is half the fun.
CUNARD
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT
c.i
AGRISEARCH
Take Good Counsel with Tea
THE Queensland Government has
taken steps to start a tea indus-
try. Nearly 5000 acres near Tully
have been reserved for this purpose and
the Minister for Lands, Mr. Fletcher,
has called for applications from persons
or companies willing to establish tea
gardens there.
Applications setting out details of
plans for development and offering an
annual rental or fee-simple for the
land must be submitted by Septem-
ber 6. This would seem to leave little
time for gathering information and
sounding the prospects of a tea indus-
try in Australia. It is to be hoped that
Mr. Fletcher’s call does not engender a
mood of haste and lead to the creation
of yet another agricultural venture that
the taxpayer will ultimately be required
to underwrite.
The Queensland Department of
Primary Industries would not appear to
be in a position to offer more than
sketchy information to prospective tea-
planters. It is more than 20 years since
any research on tea-growing was con-
ducted by that department. Before and
during the war there was some interest
in establishing a tea industry, and the
Queensland Department of Agriculture
and Stock, as it was then called, put
down experimental plantings on its
field station at South Johnstone, which
is near Tully. These trials indicated
that the tea shrub, which is a camellia,
would thrive in the area and that fairly
good yields relative to overseas stan-
dards at that time could be expected.
However, an industry did not develop
because of the labor problem and
because no one could be found to build
a processing plant until there were
flourishing tea gardens, and no one
would plant a garden until a factory
stood ready to treat the harvested leaf.
Since the war, scientific research has
not neglected tea culture. As a result,
great changes have taken place on the
old plantations of India, Ceylon, and
elsewhere. Yield and quality, in par-
ticular, have risen to an entirely new
level. With greatly expanded harvests,
prices are falling and the industry now
fears that an economic crisis is rap-
idly approaching. Moreover, buyers
have now come to expect excellence in
quality and offer little for even slightly
inferior leaf. Soon there will be no
market at all for the poorer grades of
leaf, as tea-drinkers everywhere will
have learned what the best tea tastes
like. Quality, these days, dominates tea
production at every phase, from plant-
ing the best types to packing the dried
leaf.
Variety is the cardinal factor con-
trolling yield in tea, and selection for
this factor has been highly successful
since hybrid tea was first bred a few
years ago. The Tea Research Institute
of Ceylon recently released five record-
breaking selections. All have a yield
potential of from 5000 to 70001 b. of
dried leaf per acre. Previously, aver-
age yields ranged between 2000 and
30001 b. Next year the Institute has
promised to supply planters with yet
higher-yielding lines. Last year 6000
acres in Ceylon were replanted with
these “golden bushes” as they are being
called. It is estimated that when all the
tea gardens in Ceylon are replanted
with these new selections, Ceylon alone
will produce more tea than the world
currently consumes. In the marketing
chaos that this situation will cause, an
infant industry in Queensland could
hardly be expected to grow to maturity
without persistent financial assistance.
Quality, the other vital aspect, it
is now unanimously agreed, is deter-
mined primarily by the harvester. If
she plucks just two leaves and their
terminal bud, the tea processed from
this material is of high enough quality
to command the respect of the market.
But if she plucks three leaves and the
bud, quality is too poor to attract
bidders. Such is the margin between
good and bad. Pick fine and pick
often is the rule nowadays in Ceylon,
India, Assam, East Africa, and
wherever tea is grown. Presumably, har-
vesting in Queensland would have to
be done by mechanical pickers, and it
is hard to visualise machines that could
operate with sufficient precision.
F will probably be a great day for the
New Guinea coffee-planters when
tea-growing begins in Queensland. And
mentioning New Guinea, the adminis-
tration there is hastening more slowly
with tea. It brought tea experts from
India to advise and help select a site.
The area chosen was in the Highlands
at a place now known as Garaina.
There experiments have been con-
ducted on a steadily expanding scale
since 1948.
The pilot area now comprises 300
acres and a factory was opened in 1962.
Despite early fears that the native labor
would prove deficient in quantity and
quality, it is now evident that the local
women can pick as fine and as quickly
as their Asian sisters. The quality of
this New Guinean tea has also been
tested on various overseas markets, in-
cluding Australia, and found to be
appreciated.
Yields, too, have exceeded expecta-
tion, having reached at least 12001 b. per
acre, but this as we have seen is far
below Ceylon’s best figures. These
successes at Garaina have led to a
reasonable degree of confidence that
an economic tea industry can be built
in the Territory. There is plenty of
suitable country, the only limit at the
moment being a lack of access roads.
Rigorous budgetary studies have been
carried out and it appears that a 1000-
acre unit with its processing plant
should be profitable in the Territory.
Clearly, Queensland’s would-be tea-
growers have a lot of leeway in plan-
ning and experience to make up.


IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WILLIAM JOHN DUNCAN late
of The Entrance, N.SW.
TAKE NOTICE that CONSTANCE
EDITH DUNCAN has filed a petition
No. 2451 of 1966, for divorce on the
ground Desertion and seeks orders for
the maintenance of herself, the custody
and maintenance of the two younger
children of the marriage, injunctions
and cost. If you wish to defend you
may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 7th day of September, 1966.
You may obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from Gregg Milne &
Co.. Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
M.C. 121 of 1966
BETWEEN JEAN GWENDA COOPER
Petitioner and BRIAN JOHN COOPER
Respondent.
TO: BRIAN JOHN COOPER formerly
of Geeveston in the State of Tasmania
TAKE NOTICE THAT JEAN
GWENDA COOPER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce on the ground of
desertion. Included in the Petition
are claims for custody, maintenance,
and costs. AND TAKE NOTICE that
if you wish to defend the Petition you
must file an answer at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania,
Franklin Square, Hobart within
twenty-eight days of the publication
of this Notice from which address
further information can be obtained
otherwise the Court may hear and de-
termine the proceedings in your
absence. DATED this sixth day of
August 1966. C. BRETTINHAM-
MOORE, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
BETWEEN ALAN NOEL KIDGER
Petitioner AND EULENA HELEN
KIDGER Respondent
TO: EULENA HELEN KIDGER:
TAKE NOTICE that ALAN NOEL
KIDGER has filed a Petition No. 648
of 1966 for divorce on the grounds of
ADULTERY and DESERTION. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Su-
preme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before Bth Sep-
tember, 1966. You may obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
Messrs. Francis Marks & Co.. 324 Pitt
Street. Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
BROADBENT Mona May deceased
would any person knowing the where-
abouts of the daughters of the afore-
said deceased please communicate with
Best Hooper Rintou & Shallard, Solici-
tors, 100 Queen St., Melbourne. Tele-
phone 67-7688.
Would anyone knowing the where-
abouts of John Francis O’Hagan or
Mary Therese O’Hagan (or any rela-
tives of theirs) who are a brother and
sister of the late Richard Joseph
O’Hagan who was born in Victoria in
1878 please communicate with F. T.
O’Mullane, 132 Heber Street, Moree,
New South Wales.
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or
ordered for $l.lO including postage
from the same Library, Box 4088,
G.P.0., Sydney.
ADULT
EDUCATION COURSES
in MCLBOURNI
Dr. P. Russo and Prof. Z. Cowen on
International Affairs.
Dr. F. Knopfelmacher on
Marxism.
Felix Werder on
Comparative Arts and also
“The Enjoyment of Music.”
Eric Westbrook on
Modern Art Movements.
Ring 63-4231
for handbook of City and
Suburban courses
call or write:
COUNCIL OF
ADULT EDUCATION
4th Floor,
256 Flinders St., MELB.
THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill, SYDNEY.
Owing to the increase in the roll
number expected next year, several
positions on the teaching staff will
be available to applicants with the
necessary qualifications. Commenc-
ing date; February, 1967.
Subjects required are: —
FRENCH - MATHEMATICS - SCIENCE
Some positions will be resident.
Ability to assist with extra-
curricular activities will be a
recommendation.
Applicants should apply in
writing to the Acting Principal
"The Bulletin" Crossword
NUMBER 910
ACROSS
1. Person ate enough for the artificial tongue
(9).
6. Opus I composed, being attentive to devo-
tions (5).
9. Call up our ancestress with approval (5).
10. Used to be put to sea, but merrily sought to
be half seas over (9).
11. A hat put back by the African weaver-bird
(4).
12. Joker to cause some agitation at the end (3).
13. Change for one old dope who
singularly supplies spaghetti
(6).
16. The enemy’s chest-pain saves
nine (1, 6,2, 4).
19. The tossing call of Cato gives
lashings (3-1-4-5).
21. Who’s responsible for tracing
business near the jetty? (6).
23. Dance with a famous old
“Bulletin” personality who
gives flavor to beer (3).
24. A pantheistic Moslem mystic
if backing you and me like-
wise (4).
27. Is umpired badly enough for
the central controlling body
(9).
28. She could give us a lead (5).
29. Vernacular (5).
30. Once lined with lassitude (9).
DOWN
1. Happening to meet you and
Capone at long last (8).
2. Sibylline copper hit dreadfully
(9).
3. Was sorry to sound uncivil (4).
4. Came in when offering parts
for an up -to - the - minute
mechanism (3, 7).
5. Expel us to the centre (4).
6. Philosophers appearing in no
past list (10).
7. Love to the first person was in
the front when de-squeaked (5).
8. Capital address of the Corn-
stalks (6).
14. Finding it a little hard to say,
the good character is giving
voice nevertheless (10).
15. Ignorant enough to put U
Thant’s mob in for medicine
(10).
17. Yours Truly remedies the heart
of a food snob (9).
18. Angry snake may be dropped
by the slovenly (8).
20. Copses may be successfully
searched for optical instru-
ments (6).
22. Holy painting has food with
thanks (5).
25. La Boheme? I’m upset and
there’s an encore of it (4).
26. River of lava (4).
Solution to Crossword No. 909


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London,
surface mail:
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
(Air .Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
f>.o. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
|~] Renewal. Q New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for ....
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change
their addresses are asked to notify
THE BULLETIN Subscription De-
partment well in advance in order to
avoid a break in the continuity of
service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the. new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
SPECULATORS DIARY
This Habit of Placements
A plea for compromise on issues
WHEN I learnt this week that a large placement of Steamships Trading
shares had been made, I could not help but reflect on those companies
who’ve made a habit of making placements of shares. The classic example
is Pipneer Concrete. Its capital issue record is absolutely littered with them.
No doubt it will be argued by direc-
tors that it is a cheaper form of finan-
cing than by direct issues to existing
shareholders. Agreed that constant par
issues can only weaken the capital
structure, but surely some sort of com-
promise seems possible. After all,
what is the attitude of a shareholder
of a prosperous company if he sees the
capital of his company grow steadily
and he has no opportunity of parti-
cipating in the growth. You can only
expect him to try to avoid such situa-
tions in the future.
A. G. Sims has not been guilty of
such practices in recent years. In fact,
it has gone to the other extreme and
reduced its capital by making a 10 cent
per share return in 1965. In that year,
even on the full capital, earning rate
was 18 percent. Now, with the com-
bination of a 20 percent reduction in
capital and a probable 20 percent
increase in profits, earning rate should
be up around 27 percent for the ye.ar
just past.
The market has not been slow in
recognising the implications of this
performance. Slowly but steadily the
share price has been levered upwards
so that it is now at the critical level
of 70 cents. Once through the barrier,
the chartists tell me that they are good
for a rise to 90 cents. With this target
glittering in the background, I stepped
in with a purchase of 500 shares.
With hardly a pause, I swung on to
the next purchase of 1000 Tulloch
at 43 cents. The virtues of this
company (best known for its double-
decker railway carriages) had been
pointed out to me when the shares
stood at about 70 cents some months
ago. At that stage everything seemed
to be in their favor. First of all the
company had successfully survived the
mammoth losses of over $2,000,000
marked up between 1960 and 1962.
Then, in 1965, an impressive profit of
$316,000 was recorded and this was
followed by an interim report in March
which told of higher profits for the
first half of the year. No wonder
people were then happy to place their
faith in the company.
These same people were shocked to
learn only two months later that some
of the employees felt quite differently
about the company. In an announce-
ment to the Stock Exchange on May
3, directors reported that “irresponsible
industrial action” was causing disrup-
tion to production. As it has turned
out, it has also caused disruption to the
share price!
Basically, the company is sound and
it must still be regarded as a major
force in the rolling - stock industry.
Difficult as the current problems are,
the company should ultimately be able
to overcome them. Hence my purchase
at what I consider a depressed price.
FURTHER addition to the buying
side of the ledger card was 500
Woodside fully paid. The stock needs
no introduction, although in the past I
have favored the contributing shares.
This time, however, there is only 25
cents difference in the market price be-
tween the fully paid and the 10 cent
contributings. The market seems to be
bracing itself for the sinking of an
offshore well in the Golden Beach
structure later this year. Provided one
can be patient until the drilling date
draws near, we should see some
action.
Only two sales this week, Mc-
Dowells and O’Donnell Griffin. Neither
terribly spectacular, but together they
netted $5l.
Transactions for the week were:
BOUGHT
1000 Tulloch 43 $440
500 A. G. Sims 70 $358
500 Woodside pd. 81 $414
SOLD
400 McDowells 85 $333
200 O’Donnell Griffin 1.40 $274
This buying enthusiasm has resulted
in a final debit balance of $451.
No. of Name of Date Cost Price
Shares Company Bought per 27/7/66
Share
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.72
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.43
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.10
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2 79 2.90
500 Tennyson 7/6/66 0.78 0.80
500 AMI 14/6/66 0 42 046
400 TNT 15/6/66 1.43 l"40
200 Western Mining 17/6/66 4.60 5.20
100 Philip Morris 5/7/66 7.10 7.30
1000 Emperor Gold 12/7/66 0.55 0.58
500' Waltons notes 18/7/66 1.13 1.15
400 'Peko Wallsend 19/7/66 2 47 2.47
1000 Tulloch 26/7/66 0 43 0.43
500 A. G. Sims 27/7/66 0.70 0.69
500 Woodside 27/7/66 0.81 0.81


think how many ships sail without you
TO BRITAIN
the magic carpet of a country where you can stroll
900 years into the past, or take a peep into the future
I
*■
*
m
h
in
■in
I,
mi
nn
nn
-*iwsiSßS?
=£BBB!®®
- *j -
Step back 900 years in Westminster Abbey where kings are crowned in gold . . . its 900th anniversary this year.
.* s
IP
Pony trekking in the wild, exciting Welsh countryside
Scottish dancer against Edinburgh Castle background .
Come to Britain step into Fleet Street,
and turn into ye Old Cheshire Cheese, glowing
with 300 years’ unbroken hospitality. Stand in
the paradisal light of that modern miracle,
Coventry Cathedral. Experience the variety of
England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland
there are so many ways you can go, by hiring
a car, travelling by comfortable motor-coach,
or discovering Britain by rail.
ASK YOUR TRAVEL AGENT Or post this Coupon
now to British Travel, 8 Spring Street,
Sydney, for your free copy of the ‘Holidays
in Britain ’ colour booklet.
Go the holiday way to Britain by sea
13
r M
W
it
v JE " T „fe:
BRITISH TRAVEL P&O Orient Lines Shaw Savill Lines
BRITISH TRAVEL, 8 Spring Street, Sydney
Please send me a FREE copy of the 52 page HOLIDAYS IN
BRITAIN 1966/7 colour booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
When do you plan to visit Britain?,
(IN Rl OCK 1 FTTI V'


Be astounded: only Austin 1800 gives you...
BANDWAGON SPACE
in true compact dimensions
Leg space. Shoulder space.
Head space. With Austin 1800
you get more than any car
near its size. Secret is
Austin 1800's East-West
engine, vfront wheel drive.
Less space for engine and
transmission, more space for
you. Bonus extras: disc
brakes, radial ply tyres, better
handling, greater safety.
Get the inside story on the
Car of the Century - the BMC
Safety Drive Austin 1800.
At your BMC dealer now.
$2,365 (£1,182/10/-) incl. tax.
ASTOUNDING
/AUSTIN 1800
m
=. ;
s':<->■= •■ z.
mm
ivS»fl
.a# *o*
K wK
si
I
■
»■ ?
m
;
a;
f JCcsSl
>*
J 9
f*
k
f~<
«»**
r#
. m- r
* Pftv-’
\
«N
/
NX
fj
* «!~
j»«f i
t>
AT;
idf#
Wa.
m
Vi?!
• .
.
■ > v
«tkit 'M.
.»
. ’ 3
&
£1
: S»
\
an
A
m
*>■
HI
■ •«
»■ •■•
i’#'
PH
■»V
J. ? toftfiMfi' '
KV-
*
n’tv* #
/
-
,!*i. j j ,»-•> ■•-
pts
* -■-
Wf
■■
- *>
t 4
w"if.
tmz
N s -,
w
*! ‘
* a prA W®
