

The Bulletin
The Bulletin
&
k 4^
<<s
. <§?
FEBRUARY 25, 1967
ItfWPWORATIN® Jlr AUSTRO
Li/SL-lT I Mti $
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper. Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l/ Malaysia $1


Matson
«v;
4
\ w
ft ■ M
f Pr*
% * -a.
* t
.
I
/
'•■
m I
k X
HJ
mt
.
ss*
m
: :
u
an experience in life as it should be lived
Graciously. Enjoying the gentle art of relaxation ... surrounded
by pleasure and hospitality. Pampered by luxuries and com-
forts, matched with food and service to rival distinguished
international hotels. It's the elegant sea-borne world of
the exclusively first-class SS Mariposa and SS Monterey.
And it's yours to command at the pace you wish to set.
Sun, swim, play or laze away the days. Wine, dine and dance
away the nights. Always in the company of charming com-
panions who, like you, enjoy a carefree interlude of fine living.
No wonder so many Australians are discovering this incom-
parable experience . . . the friendly world of Matson's Pacific.
Isn't this the time you decide to do something about that
Pacific voyage? Sailings are every- three weeks via Noumea,
Fiji, Pago Pago and Honolulu to San Francisco. See your
travel agent or contact Matson at 50 Young St., Sydney,
27.4272; 454 Collins Street,
Melbourne, 67.7237.
Love to have you aboard.


the big
smoke
v . ;
m
' ' v:.
i
■
51
#
■
B
very big with sportsmen, countrymen,
businessmen and all men who want
big pipe-smoking pleasure
Men who prefer only the finest pipe tobacco, smoke Amphora. And for
good reason. Tobacco specialists in Holland select the world’s choicest
tobacco leaves for Amphora blends. Each leaf is masterfully mellowed and
blended to make every pipeful of Amphora consistently excellent. And
downright satisfying. So pick a pouch of Amphora . . . it’s Australia's
leading imported pipe tobacco and there are three blends to suit all tastes.
Since 1753
The extra mild Amphora in the brown pouch is
the regular blend. The mild aromatic is in the
blue pouch, while the full aromatic Amphora
comes in the red pouch.
A product of Douwe Egberts Royal Factories, Utrecht, Holland.
2oz.
68c
SA 268
ZTllß#
111
■
%
CONTENTS
J. E. Macdonnell
OUR BEST
SELLERS .. «
BRITAIN’S PRESS
The Lords’ debate 15
THE N.Z. ECONOMY
Croesus reports 44
LETTERS 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 10
TANNER 11
OVERSEAS 15
ONE MORE WEEK 22
BATMAN
Meeting a White Hunter .. 25
MARION RAYMOND
Dinner parties 26
ARTS
Josef von Sternberg 31
BOOKS
Mai Zetterling’s “Night
Games” , 36
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Seeking Oil in Papua 54
Speculator’s Diary 62
MAN ON THE LAND
The family farm threat-
ened 56
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone; 2-0666.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.


Illustrations Left, overseas softwood fibres (long). Right, Australian eucalypt hardwood fibres (short).
THE LONG AND SHORT OF IT- significant growth from an idea
How many people know as they use thousands of tons of
Australian-made paper in stationery, books, magazines
and printed brochures that behind this highly organised
regular supply lies an unusual story of progress.
Thirty years ago, all our fine paper was imported because
pulp for this paper came from long-fibred wood, of which
Australia had little. Despite those who said it could not
be done, pulp for fine paper was made here from our own
short-fibred eucalypt trees and a great new industry,
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Limited, was born.
From idea to idea, process to process, quality to quality,
right through to catering for most of Australia’s needs
in fine paper, the company’s large mill at Burnie, Tasmania,
has never stopped developing its resources and its
products. This saves us millions of pounds in overseas
exchange every year.
And the long and short of Australia’s growth, too, is the
ability to stand on our own feet and develop our own ideas.
ASSOCIATED PULP & PAPER MILLS LTD
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
“Burnie” and “Ballarat” Fine papers are available
from your paper merchant
,-J*
>v~* ■
*~f “ > i
mm
'Klx,
*53
**•».. •» s3?*^**
>*r
««•> -...y
rnm^
si**
wm


\ i - /< K: : 1
Every garment
in F.J. shops
our own make!
HANDSOME, CRISP,
COOL F.J. TROUSERS
Pleats or plain fronts, cuffs or none—you’ll
find your style and size in F.J.’s amazing
range of summer-cool lightweight trousers
sold direct to you, from £6.9.6 ($12.95)
Other F.J. styles from only £5.19.6 ($11.95)
No man is hard to fit!
Fletcher
JONES
& STAFF
Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston
FJ22B
LETTERS
Lessons from Dr. K.
Sir,
Having Dr. Knopfelmacher report
on the recent AIPS Asian Communism
Summer School is like asking Mr.
Ansett to discuss the merits of state
nationalisation. One does not expect
objectivity. One does, however, expect
a degree of accuracy. Dr. Knopfel-
macher (8., Feb. 11) claims that in
my address to the school I argued that
Chinese aims are traditionalist rather
than Marxist/Leninist. He asks what
Chinese “tradition” has got to do with
Chinese interest in Albania, Algeria,
etc. In the text of my remarks (which
Dr. K. claims to have read) there is
no reference whatsoever to Chinese
“tradition” or traditionalist aims, or
even to Marxism/Leninism. I assume
that Dr. K. was referring to my argu-
ment that of the two components to
the Chinese Communist “threat”
Communist external ambitions and
nationalist zeal the danger from the
first was greatly exaggerated by West-
ern observers, and the second was still
less than it had been with pre-1949
Chinese Governments. Dr. K’s reve-
lation about Chinese interest in Albania
does not persuade me to alter this
assessment.
Likewise with Dr. K’s disclosure that
but for the suppression of the Malayan
insurgency, Lee Kuan Yew could never
have come to power in Singapore.
My point was that but for the failure
of Western efforts to prop up that
reliable anti-Communist Lim Yew
Hock, Lee would never have come to
power; that Lim’s suppression of his
Left Wing opponents would have been
far harsher and cruder than Lee’s; that
as a result insurgency would have bro-
ken out in Singapore and Lee would
probably have been forced to side with
the insurgents; and that precisely be-
cause the West had been and still was
making the same sort of mistake else-
where in Asia, insurgencies both suc-
cessful and unsuccessful had and would
continue to occur.
GREGORY CLARK
Canberra (A.C.T.).
Colombo Plan Education
Sir,
As an Asian student in Australia, I
found “Colombo Plan Disasters” (8.,
Feb. 4) very unrealistic. My reading
of this article is that: Australian science
and technology are not applicable under
Asian conditions, and Australians should
pay their taxes to Asian educational in-
stutions. To prove his point, Professor
Tregonning quoted his weak “tropical
ear infection” story. He also suggested
that why India is so poor is because
Indians have adopted “colonial atti-
tudes.” What rubbish! What is wrong
with India? Food distribution systems
not efficient? Uncontrolled population?
Religion vs. politics? I am sure there
are better reasons than “colonial atti-
tudes.”
Finally, he stated that any education
outside Asia is at best only half an
education. Many Singapore leaders
are educated outside Asia, I hope they
are more than half educated, I am sure
they are.
This little criticism does not mean
that I do not appreciate the fact that
the Professor really has the interest of
Asians at heart. Asians do need Aus-
tralian aid in education, but let us be
realistic, let us not try by the inch and
want by the yard.
W. H. CHAN
Melbourne (Vic.).
Time for Change
Sir,
The coming New England referen-
dum (8., Feb. 4) would be an apt time
to consider the greatest hindrance to
Australian development the Aus-
tralian Constitution. There is a grow-
ing body of opinion in Australia that
favors abolishment of the State govern-


HEAT
HANDICAPS
Need Sisalation® 450 Insulation
When it’s so darned hot that your office is an
oven, your factory a furnace, your staff slows down.
That’s bad. Bad for production and bad for
profits. What to do? Insulate with SISALATION
heat-reflecting aluminium foil insulation.
Inexpensive Sisalation makes summers 15 degrees
cooler and slashes winter fuel bills up to 40%
think what this means in terms of improved
productivity. Everyone works better because they’re
comfortable and happy.
When insulating new or existing offices and fac-
tories, build-in the extra comfort and added weather
protection of Sisalation 450. As an added benefit, when
left exposed as a ceiling surface, its high reflectivity
improves light distribution.
Sisalation 450 has qualities no other foil can match:
it’s guaranteed fire-resistant for life and is double-
reinforced for added strength.
A proved method of insulation, Sisalation 450 is
used extensively in factories, schools, warehouses,
and in cold stores operating at sub-zero temperatures.
Before you spend a cent on insulation in your factory
get the straight facts about SISALATION 450.
Check with your architect or write to:
■
.


V<■ V* J-, 'ft;
' IMP *
% ,'
tw
m, 1 "■
: l&iiim&M. : ,2f
WW. ;':’>
p ' ■ : :
? m
'mm
vA jfr-'.jUkC S V' ';/ > :
x “i«.'* “« ..-lit* ilfes**’'" L? % m
K M
> f
;■ '**
IS*
Cltf*
ii**- ■
<%
si
*
- : !
\- <fsMs 4
r-r
/ ’ #U^&r£'* , ,-* ’■•v >
i
Your comfort comes first at Menzies. It’s one of
the world’s finest hotels. It has luxurious rooms
and suites. The ultimate in international cuisine.
And the most personalised service.
MENZIES
14 Carrington Street, Sydney. Telephone 2-0232
For immediate reservations contact: MELBOURNE - SAVOY PLAZA • BRISBANE - LENNONS BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA - LENNONS TOOWOOMBA • ADELAIDE - HOTEL AUSTRALIA • HOBART - WREST POINT RIVIERA
MZI/52.102g
ments in favor of a strong Federal
Government. Needless duplication of
staffs by State and Commonwealth
Governments would be avoided, and
development could be planned on a
national and not on a regional scale.
I refer to instances of beef road
development which have been halted
because a State Government would not
let the road proceed for fear of los-
ing trade. This view is quite under-
standable but is leading the country
to complete inefficiency. This is surely
supported by the offshore rights dispute
between Victoria and South Australia.
How ridiculous it is to hear States
considering strong action against each
other, not to mention the road tax
dispute presently being heard in
London.
The Australian Constitution was for-
mulated in the 1890 s when communi-
cations were poor and States were
reluctant to yield their powers. However
times have changed. Communications
have improved and after 67 years we
should have reached a stage whereby
the electorate considers Australia first,
and State secondly. I would suggest
Federation similar to Canada’s whereby
all powers are transferred to the central
government, who may then delegate
responsibilities to new State Govern-
ments.
G. KIRKPATRICK
Glenelg (S.A.)
The Melbourne See
Sir,
The likely retirement of the Ven-
erable Catholic Archbishop of Mel-
bourne raises the question of the
succession, and whether some public
debate should take place on such an
issue. It is obvious that in the Mel-
bourne context an outstanding appoint-
ment is vital. The difficult, delicate,
and necessarily diplomatic appointment
which ought to be made in Melbourne
requires special attention.
One wonders whether a suitable local
candidate for this appointment could
be found. With the Irish traditions of
the Australian Catholic Church it
might be appropriate to seek a suc-
cessor for this See from Ireland. Such
an appointment would draw on the
rich heritage of the Irish Church,
would be in line with a recent Catholic
experience, and would surely add
vigor to contemporary Church affairs.
Or again, in the Australian Church,
a particular attachment to Rome can
be discerned, which might be appropri-
ately honored by the appointment of
an Italian to the See. Here, again, the
rich cultural heritage would be a great
source from which to draw.
There can be no question about who
should properly exercise the jurisdic-
tion in this and subsequent appoint-
ments; past experience tends to suggest
that the advice on which appointments
are based could be widened. Perhaps a
public debate is the best way to
accomplish this.
HENRY GRANT
Blaxland (N.S.W.)


m
I m
h
K
Kl
*z
h
B
n
3S
I
&-J
V.
NJ
••/ If km
/ u
we are
to match the growth in telecommunication
With the addition of the new telecommunications section to the
Tottenham factory of Olympic Cables we can truly say that we
can produce in both quantity and quality, any type of cable, wire
or flexible, demanded by Australian industry.
When £ telephone rings, a radio or television broadcast is made,
or news transmitted, an Olympic Cable helps to make it possible.
Olympic Cables is a member of the all-Australian Olympic Group
of Companies.
Olympic cables help you live better electrically
Olympic
CA B LE S
1
a#


Face of the Week
At the first 1967 Premiers’ Con-
ference, the Commonwealth agreed
to release an extra $l3 million to
the States, by relaxing the tax
reimbursement formula. The Com-
monwealth also said it would release
large funds for Tasmanian fire
relief, along recent drought relief
lines; and it made provision for
South Australia to spend $35 million
on Australia’s first natural gas pipe-
line. Meanwhile the public in all
States had contributed nearly $1
million to Tasmania’s immediate fire
relief. In Melbourne, the Australian
Agricultural Council decided that
margarine quotas should remain
unchanged; and heard that Aus-
tralia’s rural output would rise to
$3592 million in 1966-67. Two
adjoining Queensland grazing pro-
perties, covering 350 square miles,
were sold for $1 million.
★ ★ ★
Australia’s unemployed increased
to nearly 89,000 for January, despite
some 12,000 school leavers withheld
by an extra year of high school in
N.S.W. Nearly 30 people died in
road accidents during the week. The
Federal Cabinet decided to hold a
referendum to break the nexus
(numerical relationship) between
the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives, despite Country Party
opposition. The Federal executive
of the RSL asked for a wider
National Service call-up so that the
20,000 yearly group of 20-year-olds
would have either NS or CMF train-
ing. The Commonwealth refused to
protect the Australian light aircraft
industry, on the Tariff Board’s
recommendation. Australia sold
150,000 tons of wheat to Chile.
★ ★ ★
In Vietnam, two Australian officers
were killed and five men wounded
by a Viet Cong booby trap. A
stoppage by AEU men disrupted
railways traffic in central Queens-
land. On latest sales figures,
Holdens continued to lead the
market, followed by Ford, BMC,
Chrysler. VW’s, well down, dropped
their price for 1967 models by about
$2OO. Australia’s rising cotton pro-
duction reached 91,000 bales in
1966, against the annual need for
120,000 bales. The Sydney City
Council fixed its 1967 rates at 2.5 c
in the dollar. Sydney’s Opera House
dispute over use of the main hall was
unresolved, the ABC wanting it for
concerts, the Opera House Trust as a
multi-purpose hall for opera, etc.
U.S. and RAAF aircraft were search-
ing W.A. for Biosatellite 1, believed
to have come down 300 miles from
Perth. The Northern Territory Legis-
lative Council heard the introduc-
tion of a Bill to give the Aborigines
rights to own and develop land
within their 11 reserves in the N.T.,
under Federal sponsorship.
The Bulletin
VOL. 89. No. 4538.
FEBRUARY 25. 1967
Peace?
ANYONE from the President of
Paraguay to Pope Paul can
make instant headlines if he uses
the two words “peace” and “Viet-
nam” together in the one sentence.
If even Sir Henry Bolte or Mr.
Askin wanted world publicity they
could probably get it by urging
something or other about Vietnam.
Now Mr. Harold Wilson has
followed a traditional P.R. gim-
mick for British Prime Ministers—
of discussions with his opposite
number in Moscow —and he seems
to have done it with a degree of
recklessness that makes mockery of
the deaths and disasters of war.
The expression of such aspira-
tions is, of course, understandable.
Most of us want to show that we
are human beings, not animals. But
it could be inhumanly misleading,
arousing hope when it cannot per-
haps be fulfilled, if the suggestion
is that the Vietnamese war is likely
to end, as most wars end, in a
negotiated settlement, and that’s
that. It seems more likely that this
war, so diffuse and unusual that
one of the problems is to describe
what kind of war it is, is more
likely to “end” in a way as
unorthodox as the way in which it
started. Perhaps the most one can
hope for is that it may not so much
end as cool down.
It is in Hanoi, not in Peking or
Moscow, and certainly not in
London, that the final decision to
cool down the war will be made,
and there is still evidence that the
Hanoi government, for so long
believing that South Vietnam
would fall into its lap, still believes
that, somehow, this may yet be so.
The bombing of North Vietnam,
which, in the manner of bombing,
at first increased morale, is now
causing disaffection, but the dis-
affection does not yet matter much:
delegations of protest are invited to
Hanoi and then put in jail. As the
year proceeds there may be some
change of heart in Hanoi: the
pride that the Hanoi government
now takes in the fact that so many
American soldiers have been sent
to South Vietnam may change to
something else. If this happens,
what is more likely than a formal
peace conference is that the North
Vietnamese might quietly do some
packing up pull some of their
forces out, cut down on supplies - —■
and let the Americans know what
they are doing through one of the
several secret channels already
available, suggesting at the same
time that the Americans in turn
stop the bombing. (The real pur-
pose of the bombing is to provide
the Americans with a bargaining
piece.) While this was happening
privately, something rather differ-
ent might still be being said
publicly.
This would still leave the situa-
tion unresolved, but at least death
and destruction would decrease
while the struggle would continue
to decide who was strongest in the
disintegrated society of South Viet-
nam. It is this that the crisis in
Vietnam is about, and for this
reason the war is being fought as
much in the Constituent Assembly,
where the new constitution is being
made, and in the villages, where
rural reform is beginning, as in the
fighting.


THIS AUSTRALIA
Don’t Be Fooled
When the Sydney “Sun” paid $20,000 for publication rights of William Man-
chester’s book on John Kennedy’s assassination, it appeared to have scored an
exclamation point in the constant billboard battle between Sydney’s two afternoon
newspapers. All that seemed left to do was to prepare the promotion campaign.
But the book that caused legal war-
fare between the Kennedys and Man-
chester soon set off a promotion war
between the “Sun” and its rival, the
“Daily Mirror.” The “Mirror” got
hold of the Warren Commission’s report
(which didn’t cost it anything) and
came out last Monday with a front
page entirely devoted to the promise
of “THE ONLY OFFICIAL
ACCOUNT of the murder (a new
word for assassination) of the Presi-
dent.” Picture of Jackie, 100 words of
heavy type, and OFFICIAL as if
stamped on. Beginning Wednesday.
The “Sun” was justly affronted
$20,000 worth. On Tuesday, over one
of its usual catchy headlines, “Sex
Attack, Bashings, Robbery! St. Valen-
tine’s Day in Sydney,” it warned
readers, “DON’T BE FOOLED,” but
was really talking about the book,
coming out on Thursday, exclusive to
the “Sun,” and not “Sex, Bashings,
etc.”
Just to be sure, it borrowed the
advertisers’ phrase, “THERE IS NO
SUBSTITUTE,” printed from a reverse
block.
But already the “Mirror” was sell-
ing Tuesday papers with a front page
devoted to a news story, “NEW
JACKIE SHOCKS” (an alleged friend
had allegedly said she was “emotion-
ally unbalanced”), and a reference to
the coming “official” story —• DON’T
BE FOOLED BY LATER AC-
COUNTS! ORDER NOW!
The “Jackie Shocks” story, incident-
ally, was given only what it was worth,
interstate. The Melbourne “Herald,”
which also was running the Man-
chester book, gave Jackie’s shocks a
brief mention on page 3 . . . not the
whole front page.
On Wednesday morning the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” joined the battle
with its own DON’T BE FOOLED,
offering “the only balanced account” of
President Kennedy’s death, beginning
Thursday.
Wednesday’s “Sun” promoted Thurs-
day’s first instalment by using the whole
front page for a teaser editorial on
Manchester’s book, but later Wednesday
editions of the “Sun” had a remade
front page, picturing “Jackie As She
Saw the Murder,” with a half-page
panel crying, “Let’s get the facts
straight . . . exclusive ... no other
paper can publish the book here (in
Sydney) . . . ‘Mirror’ rehashing parts
of the Warren Report of 2\ years ago.”
Unabashed, Wednesday’s “Mirror”
promoted its “first big free liftout” in
some 20 gigantic words covering the
front page, and beginning, “Oh, my
God! They have shot my husband . . .
I love you, Jack!” The liftout was less
sensational, a little type and lots of
pictures.
The Thursday “Sun” and “Mirror”
were almost identical in their front
pages, one offering exactly 22 words of
type and seven tiny pictures, the other
21 words, a picture of Jackie, and the
OFFICIAL stamp.
The “Sun” billboard read, “The Book
Jackie Took to Court Starts Today,”
the “Mirror’s,” “Kennedy (picture of
Jackie) Free Liftout.”
And the news seller at the corner
called, “Big sensation!”
The New Soviet Diplomats
A few weeks ago a short, bald man stepped from the Governor-General’s Rolls-
Royce on to the expansive lawns of Government House. He was Mr. Nikolai
Yalovlevich Tarakanov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Soviet
Socialist Republics, who was presenting his credentials to Lord Casey.
As he stood abruptly to attention for
the playing of the Soviet National
Anthem, someone in the inside drawing
room remarked, “Well, here they are—
the Russians are coming,” a reminder
of the ghastly movie of the same name,
which was showing in Canberra at the
time. In fact, the Russians do seem
to be coming—and coming in some
significant force over the past six
months.
Take, for example, the two most
recent appointments to the Soviet
Embassy, Mr. Tarakanov and his first
counsellor, Professor Victor Ivanovich
Popov. Mr. Tarakanov, 53, is a career
diplomat who was deputy head of the
Branch of South-East Asia in the
U.S.S.R. Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
perhaps indicating that the Soviet Union
is taking Mr. Holt seriously when he
says he is anxious for Australia to build
closer ties with the South-East Asian
region. Dr. Popov, who has been in
Canberra since October, was previously
deputy head of the Diplomatic Institute
in the Foreign Affairs Institute, Russia’s
chief diplomatic school. Australian
Government officials speculate that Dr.
Popov is here to educate the younger
Embassy staffers in diplomatic modus
operandi, to overcome the terse ideo-
logical barriers which have deprived the
Russians from social contact with Aus-
tralians, and to regain some of the trust
which was dashed by the Skripov
Affair.
Dr. Popov himself has shown an out-
standing working knowledge of Aus-
tralian domestic affairs. He can tell
you about the swings in various seats
at the November Federal elections and
is able to discuss Labor’s relations with
various Press proprietors right down to
the details of the marriage between
Labor and “The Sydney Morning
Herald” during the 1961 elections and
the subsequent disengagement. It was
significant that both men, Tarakanov
and Popov, were awarded the Soviet
Badge of Honor on New Year’s Eve
for “successful work” in the field of
Russia’s international foreign policy.
The gesture was seen as a move to
give added prestige to the Soviet mission
on the eve of its new leadership and
new image.
B UT there is another person in the
cream brick building at 78 Canberra
Avenue, in the Canberra suburb of
Griffith, who singles himself out for
mention in this context of changing
Soviet attitudes toward Australia. This
is Mr. Ivan Stenin, the Embassy’s Press
and information officer, who has
attempted more than any other Soviet
diplomat to break through into the
upper echelons of Government and
the civil service. He has sought out
publishers, editors, journalists, and
television producers to push Soviet
“soft line” propaganda, whether in the
form of television documentaries on
how Russian children spend Christmas
or photographs to illustrate school text-
books. Early last year Mr. Stenin re-
vitalised the drab, irregular “Soviet
News Bulletin,” which now reaches the
National Press Gallery at Parliament
House every Friday and is closely
studied. (In a recent issue of the news-
sheet sharp-eyed journalists gleaned
the story about the Russian protest
against Australia’s decision to draft
aliens. The story received prominent
display in all metropolitan dailies.)
This week a telex machine was installed
in Mr. Stenin’s tiny office at the rear
of the Embassy so that news from the
Kremlin can be relayed directly to
Canberra for the “Soviet News
Bulletin.”
A month ago the Embassy decided
to spend $lOO,OOO on a lavish residence
for Mr. Tarakanov. The main reason
for the shift .to the new residence is
the Soviet intention to indulge more
widely in' entertaining. At present
receptions and Press conferences are
conducted in the barn-like chancery on
Canberra Avenue, inadequate for enter-
taining more than 40 people at a
time. Another pointer was the warm
welcome the Russians gave to tennis
players during the annual tennis com-
petition between the embassies and the


public service. Senior officers of the
departments were amazed to see the
Russian team bouncing around the
United States Embassy’s courts and the
Americans in tremendous form giving
the Russians a hiding on the Soviet
courts. A few years ago this would
have been out of the question.
Tanner
"Australia should cut the apron strings with Britain."
Controllers
Who controls Australian industry? If
it is the directors of Australian public
companies, do they collectively deter-
mine the fate of strategic sectors of the
economy in the interests of a “power
elite” operating through interlocking
directorships?
The question is answered in Hilda
Rolfe’s “The Controllers,” published
by Cheshire.
Nobody has disputed the existence of
a wide area of interlocked company
directorates in Australia and not all that
many outside rarefied academic circles
have questioned their inevitability.
What is surprising is that the author’s
research into the directorship tie-ups
between the top 50 Australian public
companies hasn’t thrown up more of
them, at least of the kind that might
have some - sinister economic implica-
tions.
The author discovered that the 302
directors of the 50 companies held 750
directorships between them, of which
348 were among the fifty companies
in the survey and 402 in 275 com-
panies outside it. Of these 302 directors,
133 held only one directorship, which t
left 169 sharing 617 places on the
board of 325 companies. Only 74 of the
169 had more than three director-
ships each: most of the 169 had only
two or three board places (which dis-
counts the suggestion of a wide net-
work of board connections). Inter-
locks were most prevalent among bank
and insurance company directors (more
than half the directors of these com-
panies having more than three board
places). Overall the 50 chairmen of the
companies examined held 111 other
directorships of which 26 were chairs in
other companies.
More than 40 percent of all the in-
terlocking directors were on the boards
of the largest financial institutions:
almost all of these were members of
the so-called “ruling families,” and the
author observes that “there remains
... a solid core of family share-
holdings to accompany the traditions of
directorial participation, which were
established at the outset of the in-
dustrialisation of the economy.”
While most interlocks were found
in the financial institutions area, sur-
prisingly the next thickest concentra-
tion was among competing companies;
then, in order, suppliers, consumers,
investment interests, potential competi-
tors, and, lastly, where there was a
“community of interest.”
As for the characteristics of the in-
terlocking directorship class, the author
discovered the average age to be 62,
that Melbourne directors mostly resided
in Toorak or its immediate environs
(sic). Sydney directors were about
evenly divided between harborside
eastern suburbs and the North Shore.
Their educational background appeared
to be predominantly non-State school
(with a pronounced concentration on
Melbourne Grammar School in the
case of those originating from Vic-
toria); most had received post-
secondary education, many graduating
in accountancy and law in particular—
the predominating profession was
accountancy, followed by law. There
was a recurrent pattern of club affilia-
tions.
In these respects the social back-
ground of the interlocking directors
did not differ much from that of other
directors; the only difference appeared
to be a higher incidence of inter-family
groupings among the interlocking direc-
tors, particularly apparent in the circle
of Collins House families.


Six a week
to the U.S.A.
*
W* m
<
. H
* * -
iim—nrml
• " ■- •
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday,
Saturday. We’ve added two new flights to the U.S.A.
One on Friday and another on Sunday. That means you can now fly
Pan Am to the U.S.A. any day except Wednesday. Call a Pan Am
Travel Agent, or call us direct. No matter which of our
flights you choose, you’ll enjoy the good feeling
that comes from flying the best there is.
World's most experienced airline
First on the Pacific First on the Atlantic First in Latin America First Round the World
F»/vtvr /vivi
SYDNEY: 82 ELIZABETH STREET. 28-2621 • MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET 63-9077 ‘
PA546


“A 3 hr. meeting
on a dictating
machine, how?”
s
o
%
1
Well, the
National RQISBS is
more than a dictating
machine, it’s a portable
tape recorder. It
plays and records for
3 hours (not 40 minutes), has
2 speeds (not just 1): V/$ for dictation
and 3 3 4 i.p.s. for finer musical effects.
So when your secretary hangs up her ear-
phones for the night you whisk the
National home and soak up some music
from the large 6" cabinet speaker. (Most
dictating machines make do with a smaller,
one housed in the mike.) And when you’re
dictating with the RQISBS, you can
switch to “auto-voice” to catch your words
and not your pauses. So why lavish more
on a 1-speed dictating machine? $189.95
buys you a 2-speed, 9-transistor National
tape recorder.
NATIONAL
Send for a free brochure on the
National range
Haco Distributing Agencies
57/69 Anzac Parade, Kensington,
N.S.W.
Name...
Address.
Stale
RQISBS- M563A
The CP and the Nexus
From ALAN REID in Canberra
When the House of Representatives met this week to elect new Speaker William
Aston, of Bondi, 82 massed Government supporters (61 Liberal, 21 Country Party)
confronted a Labor Opposition of 41, and a solitary Independent—Captain Sam
Benson, expelled Laborite and anti-Victorian ALP executive representative for the
Melbourne seat of Batman.
Those figures speak for themselves.
Despite the new-look Labor leader-
ship of Mr. Gough Whitlam, Labor is
going to be very small beer, politically,
in the next two years.
Relationships between the Liberal
and Country Party partners in the
coalition Government and ideas that
either Party or both can evolve for a
dynamic approach to the continuing
problem of Australian expansion and
growth are going to be the dominating
factors in Australian politics over the
next three years.
So far the strength of the Liberal-
CP Government has depended upon the
strength of the Liberal-CP association.
Back in prewar years, the then Prime
Minister, plain Mr. Menzies, lost the
Prime Ministership when the ties be-
tween the Liberals and the Country
Party were loosened as the result of
personal feuding by the then CP leader,
the late Sir Earle Page, with Menzies.
A man of high intelligence, Menzies
learned a harsh lesson from his own
personal history. When he again won
the Prime Ministership in 1949 the
one thing he was determined on was
that, come hell or high water, he would
avoid any hiving off of the Country
Party. An impatient, often intolerant
man, he turned patient where the
Country Party and its major person-
ages were concerned. From both Sir
Arthur Fadden to the later John
McEwen, he endured without resent-
ment opposition that he would have
sought to crush ruthlessly in his
younger, more impulsive, days.
B UT when the Federal Parliament
opened this week, Menzies’ successor
Prime Minister Harold Holt was in a
position unique for any non-Labor Aus-
tralian Prime Minister since the rise of
the Labor Party. With another two
seats, he could have appointed a
Speaker and had a majority of one
over all the other groupings (including
the CP) in the House of Representatives
—and Menzies had governed success-
fully and effectively from 1961 to 1963
with a floor majority of only one vote.
But, if Holt had won 63 seats instead
of 61, I do not think he would have
given even a passing thought to the
possibility of governing without CP
support. His post-election attitude
suggests this.
Though CP strength proportionately
was down on Liberal strength, Holt
unquestionably gave the CP the same
representation as it had in the previous
Government, and left its key figures in
the same positions.
As I see it, CP frustration is more
likely to disrupt the harmony of the
coalition than any Liberal long-term
ambition to form an all-Liberal Gov-
ernment. Personally, I think that only
a few Liberals, relatively, possess this
ambition, and as far as I can make out
they are mostly located on the peri-
phery of Liberal power.
But frustration has been responsible
for events in politics almost as often as
ambition. The CP undoubtedly has
both a sense of frustration and an
attack of nerves. Population trends—
the movement of votes from country
areas to the perimeter of the cities
and provincial centres—are working
against it. And I cannot see any way
to reverse the trend.
'J'HE CP is in an odd situation on the
proposed amendments to break the
nexus between the House of Represen-
tatives and remove the Constitutional
requirement that the Senate shall
number as near as is practicable half
the House of Representatives.
If the CP refuses to support the
referendum which it has said would
be “unwise” and the referendum
fails, it is extremely unlikely that the
House of Representatives would be
enlarged. To enlarge the House without
breaking the nexus would increase the
Senate numbers unjustifiably.
Without an enlargement of the
House of Representatives, the CP stands
to lose under redistribution at least
one seat, possibly two, in N.S.W. alone.
The CP made a deal with the
Liberals when the last redistribution
was rejected (by a combination of
Labor and CP forces) that if the
Government would agree to a more
specific loading in favor of country
electorates of up to 20 percent, the CP
would support the referendum. But
now the CP organisation (as distinct
from its Parliamentary wing which,
under CP rules, accepts an organisation
decision as a recommendation only and
not as a direction) has had second
thoughts.
It clearly wants to reject the deal
accept what it has been given in the
shape of a loading in favor of country
electorates, but repudiate the quid pro
quo of support for the referendum in
the hope that this will keep the
Liberals permanently dependent upon
CP support to form a Government.
The interesting thing is that in
trying to avoid a situation in which the
Liberals might get an absolute majority
over all the other political groupings,
including the CP in its own right, the
Country Party could be creating an
atmosphere in which the Liberals might
start meditating about the necessity of
governing in their own right.


Educators
Three years ago Cardinal Gilroy said
that the Catholic education system in
Sydney was facing “a critical situation.”
Last week the crisis developed further.
Twelve teachers from the De La Salle
College, Revesby, and five from the
Christian Brothers High School, Bondi,
went on strike for a day in protest
against their new salaries. They then
joined with teachers from 11 other
schools in a “Steering Committee” to
pressure the Sydney Catholic Educa-
tion Office into adjusting their salaries
by their next pay-day.
It was no surprise that the revolt
occurred largely in De La Salle schools.
The De La Salle “regional” schools in
the Sydney Archdiocese are more
informal than many others; physical
punishment is sparingly used; their
policy of establishing schools in un-
served outer suburbs means a high pro-
portion of lay teachers. (At Revesby
it is 17 lay teachers to eight religious.)
But behind this, was the new system
of Catholic education in Sydney, the
basics of which were outlined in an
Education Office circular to Principals
last November in which each was simul-
taneously assured that he was the
“employer” but that payment of teacher
salaries would not be in his hands.
Under the previous system the Prin-
cipal appointed and paid his own
teachers.
The teachers themselves were affected
by the next move of the Education
Office. On a mass scale, new wages
were issued —all those who had been
attracted to different schools by the
private, monetary enticements of head-
masters suddenly found these arrange-
ments ignored.
This situation represented a decisive
defeat for the headmasters. Many
had simply refused for a month to
accept the new wage rates. Their final
act before the pay-day was to refuse
to sign a February 3 “letter of verifica-
tion” of new salaries from the Office.
But finally they had lost the right to
pay ability as they saw fit, without
outside intervention.
The day after the Revesby teachers
struck, parents received an explana-
tory letter from the Principal, Brother
Dunstan: “Today’s deputation of
teachers to the Catholic Education
Office has been absolutely necessary,”
Brother Dunstan echoed the feelings of
many Principals when he stated that
he had been put in an embarrassing
position. As a result of this letter, the
Cardinal received further correspond-
ence from many parents in defence of
their teachers’ claims.
For the teachers themselves the new
system was a gross imposition. The
statement of one of them that “if they
can do that to us, they can do any-
thing” expressed precisely the feelings
of many. The impersonality of the new
system, the arbitrary disregard of the
old contracts, the insecurity bound up
with this interference—these were the
moving forces.
Future developments in the episode
will depend on the attitudes of the
various groups. At present, most of the
heat has gone, charity is being loudly
canvassed, and patience rather than gun-
boat diplomacy is the rule. Yet little
of the root cause of the upset has been
affected by the subtle manoeuvres since
the strikes.
The lay teachers are still impotent
in the sense that they have no
effective representation on the important
bodies. This is a constant cry, and one
of the hopes of a recent lay teachers’
meeting was that it might slip one
or more of its members on to the
Building and Finance Commission. The
really big question lay teachers in these
schools have to face is whether to act
as a trade union or rely on the “charity”
of the authorities. As one key organiser
of the newly elected Steering Corn-
mittee termed it: “We’re not working
in a democracy; we’re working in the
Church.”
For the Principals, virtually all the
irritants remain. The .power of the
parish priests has been quietly elimi-
nated by general consent, but the
“employer” status of the Principals
remains badly in doubt. The Catholic
Education Office will remain under-
staffed: it is incredible to consider the
amount of work and the responsibilities
it now has in this new centralisation of
administration, and undoubtedly a
minor part of this controversy has been
due to its sheer inability to cope.
Report on the Waterfront
About two years ago, the then Minister for Labor, Mr. McMahon, asked Mr.
A. E. Woodward, a Melbourne barrister and the son of a former Governor of
N.S.W., to undertake an inquiry into the turbulent stevedoring industry. Mr.
McMahon said he thought the inquiry would take “about three months.”
The inquiry suffered the early mis-
fortune of being boycotted by the
Waterside Workers’ Federation and was
later made seem irrelevant by Mr.
McMahon’s legislation which removed
recruiting powers from the WWF and
threatened it with deregistration.
Then Mr. Woodward became chair-
man of a national all-in conference
ithe major groups of the
industry: the union, the employers, the
Australian Stevedoring Industry
Authority, the Department of Labor,
and the ACTU.
The national Stevedoring Industry
Conference has now been going for
about 18 months and, to the Govern-
ment’s great relief and everyone’s
greater surprise, has been successful in
bringing a form of collective bargain-
ing to the waterfront.
Most of the work has been done by
a working party of the union and the
employers under Mr. Woodward’s
chairmanship. The contending parties
have reached a fair measure of agree-
ment on a pensions scheme for “A”
class ports, on a method of providing
permanent employment for waterside
workers, on relative wage rates, labor
priorities, the role of the ASIA, the
problem of redundancy, and water-
front discipline.
The conference is meeting in Sydney
this week and intends to meet again in
March and to aim for agreement in all
significant matters by April, at which
time the parties will report back to
their principals for approval.
The chief difficulties at the moment
are to get agreement among the
employers’ organisations and to
negotiate wage rates and redundancy
payments acceptable to both the union
and the stevedoring companies.
The most important issue facing
WWF officials, now that the union has
been wrested from Communist control,
is the redundancy brought about by
mechanisation and the new container'
processes. At present the Australian
waterfront carries about 20,000 men.
This figure will probably be halved in
the next decade, and perhaps even in
five years.
The Stevedoring Conference seems
to have agreed to deal with the problem
by introducing a phased reduction of
the retiring age, voluntary retirement,
voluntary transfers to other ports, assist-
ance to workers to find other jobs, and
the right to take payment in lieu of
notice. The last is the only one of these
measures still being debated and in
terms of one question: how much?
The job has taken rather more than
ML McMahon’s “three months,” but the-
contribution to peace on the waterfront
made by the Woodward Inquiry Confer-
ence has already been considerable.
W l *" ™° watersi * workers walked off
* he Melbourne wharves m protest one
day last mon h it was the first stoppage
ln e P or or one y ear '
Digs
For both world wars the wordl
“Digger” meant anybody from the
Commander-in-Chief to a cook-house
slushy.
In the Australian Task Force in.
Vietnam it now seems to be taking on
a new and much more restricted mean-
ing, the same meaning as the British
“pommies” or the American “G. 1.”
All it means now is the ordinary
private soldier. When officers talk about
“the Diggers” they no longer mean
themselves.
Just as the jungle has become “the
Jay,” the word “Digger” often comes
down to a simple “Dig.” It seems to
be losing even its Australian element.
The usage “the Viet Digs” has been
heard, meaning the South Vietnamese
private soldiers.


Face of the World
Asia: In Vietnam the four-day
truce ended, the U.S. waited a
further two days before resuming
its B-52 bombing of the North, but
then peace hopes ended, too. Hanoi
broadcast that it would never agree
to peace talks until the U.S. ceased
all acts of war, but did not demand
U.S. withdrawal. American Defence
Secretary McNamara said the tur-
moil in China had not affected the
flow of military supplies to Norf:h
Vietnam. India’s 50 million voters
elected 530 to the Central Parlia-
ment and 3560 State Assembly
members, after days of election
violence. Indonesia’s Supreme Court
accused President Sukarno of grand
theft from national funds over 21
years and demanded his trial for
treason. The Indonesian Army said
it would stamp out any pro-Sukarno
uprising when the President’s hour
came.
The Americas: President John-
son ordered “a policy designed to
prevent any Government agency
from undermining the integrity and
independence of American educa-
tional institutions,” after the
National Students’ Association with
300 chapters said it had received
subsidies from the Central Intelli-
gence Organisation. But the Admin-
instration’s problem of the week was
the more difficult one of reading the
intent of various Vietnam peace
feelers. Twenty-one Latin-American
nations agreed to sign ;a treaty out-
lawing nuclear weapons from the
Rio Grande to the Antarctic.
Europe: Prime Minister Wilson
was still hoping for “peace at any
time” in the Vietnam war. Former
London “Daily Mail” editor Randall
was appointed managing editor of
Lord Thomson’s “Sunday Times.”
Aden had a week of riots during the
eighth anniversary of the South
Arabia Federation; more than 600
were arrested by Britain’s 2000
troops. Holland’s seven million
voters failed to elect a strong national
Government among the 24 parties
standing. In Austria a neo-Nazi
party was formed on the lines of
West Germany’s NDP. Two hundred
and fifty people were feared
drowned in another ferry capsize in
the Persian Gulf. Fashion designer
“Coco” Chanel condemned mini-
skirts and said “masculine” fashions
were destroying love.
Africa: Portugal asked the U.N.
for $25 million recompense for trade
losses by Mozambique because of the
sanctions against Rhodesia. Twenty-
three men and one woman began a
1500-mile, trans-Sahara race from
Algeria to Mauritania on sand
yachts.
OVERSEAS
The Lords Debate the Press
Britons, used to a proliferation of daily newspapers unique in the world, were
shocked when the Economist Intelligence Unit recently forecast the possible deaths
of four newspapers; and perhaps no less when the House of Lords took the matter in
urgent debate early this month, trying to discover (a) why, and (b) whether it
really mattered.
In that connection the Australian
Press was mentioned, early on, by
former British High Commissioner Lord
Carrington, who pointed out that
Sydney had only two morning and two
evening newspapers, and Melbourne one
fewer, and “I did not find that the
citizens of Sydney or Melbourne were
noticeably less well informed, less inde-
pendent in their attitudes, or that they
felt more deprived than the citizens of
London.
“We have nine national morning and
seven or eight Sunday papers . . . and
1500 or more local newspapers. I do
not think that freedom of speech,
opinion, and comment would be in
danger with the demise of one or’ two
of our morning or Sunday newspapers.”
Carrington also quickly got to the
reason behind the reason for the debate:
“the recent take-over of ‘The Times’
by the noble Lord, Lord Thomson of
Fleet . . . who, it seems to me, produces
rather good newspapers . . . (and) I do
not think there is anything wrong with
a good newspaper making money.”
The leader of the debate, the Earl
of Arran, a director of the “Daily
Mail,” opened this area when he moved
the debate, describing the take-over of
“The Times” as a “grisly business . . .
the disappearance of a great British
institution —or, rather its conversion
into an organ whose main purpose is
to make money ... it is rather as
though the Royal Navy were taken over
by Mr. Onassis.”
Arran commented bitterly that “The
Times” had been taken very seriously,
particularly in the Commonwealth, but
was now “the creature of Lord Thom-
son of Fleet, whose stable also includes
103 newspapers, 138 magazines, five
television stations, six radio stations,
and six book publishing companies.”.
(Interjection from Lord Thomson:
“My Lords, may I interrupt to say that
I own 140 newspapers?”)
At the closure, 50,000 words later,
Arran had to admit: “For the most
part, noble Lords approve the philoso-
phies of Lord Thomson of Fleet. I
myself have not been converted to
Thomsonism, and I remain sorry about
‘The Times.’ When and where is this
noble Lord going to stop?”
Perhaps it was, in its way, a call for
mercy. For his part in the debate,
Lord Thomson had drubbed the British
Press on the basis of the EIU report:
“It says that my organisation and one
other are efficient. I would say that
we may be efficient by British standards
but not by good Canadian or American
standards. How can we be really
efficient when we have to fight our way
through every progressive step, when
new techniques are resisted, when we
are forced to overman new machines?”
Of more personal criticism Thomson
said, “It is very easy to strike a moral
attitude when you have no responsibility
and when your only concern is to put
other people right.
“It is very easy to say that it would
be a national catastrophe if this or that
other newspaper were obliged to close
down. But surely the best judges of
that are the readers, and the best
measure of the strength of their feeling
is what they are prepared to do about
The Earl of Arran
it. If its selling price were increased
by, say, 3d. a copy, would they go on
buying it? If the readers would not be
prepared to do so, by what right can
the newspaper itself claim to be treated
as a social service and be subsidised at
the expense of its more successful
competitors?”
Thomson asked whether “changes in
the pattern of the British public’s news-
paper needs arising inevitably as a
result of modern changes in technology
and social organisation should be re-
garded as tragedies to be averted at
all cost?”
He then hoist other Press interests
with their own petards by damning their
best schemes to save the British Press
by subsidy, rationalisation, or any other
disguised form of redistribution of
stress to save the weak:
“Who shall decree that more suc-
cessful newspapers should be penalised
and thus forced to give a worsened
service to their readers? Would not
this be an intolerable example of job-
protecting restrictive practice of the
sort which is so much deplored?”
It seemed that many of the noble
Lords were hearing a clear expression
of North American business prag-


matism, unhobbled by traditional party
considerations, for the first time; and
clearly it shook them.
Something of the sort had happened
earlier to Lord Arran, who had sat on
the Monopolies Commission to hear
“The Times” takeover defended, and:
“My virgin imagination had to with-
stand the impact of seeing the noble
Lord and other distinguished people
from the Press appearing before us, as
it were, in the raw; it had a very con-
siderable impact upon me, indeed.”
Arran had a seemingly more dedi-
cated approach than his peers, putting
the public interest first and last. He
spoke feelingly of one of the papers in
trouble, the London “Sun”: “Is there
not something dangerous when there
might be no left-of-centre daily, so that
1| million readers would be disen-
franchised?”
He thought it might take 100 differ-
ent newspapers to adequately represent
the Englishman’s different opinions.
Lord Moynihan, who spoke for the Lib-
erals as well as show-biz, admitted that
the demise of the last Liberal news-
paper in England had been followed by
an increase in Party membership, but
deplored the similar “disenfranchise-
ment” of 2\ million Liberal voters.
Moynihan contributed one thought to
the debate. If Englishmen were so con-
cerned about maintaining a great num-
ber of individual viewpoints, why not
have freely conflicting columnists, as in
America, each expressing his own politi-
cal view and gathering his own fol-
lowers, to his newspaper’s benefit?
T™ Economist Intelligence Unit spent
150,000 words on diagnosing the
ills of the British Press; the Lords six
hours to debate the EIU report, for all
its grievous and grisly revelations. The
trouble was that Thomson had given
them most of his answers before they
asked the questions; and that even
greater experts had tried and failed be-
fore, in evidence at two Royal Com-
missions and several hearings.
When they asked: why should news-
papers with circulations up to mil-
lion fail? Thomson’s answer was before
them bad management backed by
all the evidence in the EIU report. This
was quite possibly a completely incor-
rect answer, but one which could only
have been denied in a long and dreary
recital of counter-facts and counter-
figures. How else can you question the
word of a man who owns 140 successful
newspapers?
Having said at the beginning that it
was not good enough to glance at the
skeleton in the cupboard and hastily
shut the door again, the Earl of Arran
concluded the Press debate with the
statement that, “Almost all noble Lords
would deplore a further reduction in
the number of newspapers . . . and are
against State assistance to the industry.
There is a firm intention to change the
things that need to be changed. The
matter now having been most
thoroughly ventilated, I beg leave to
withdraw my motion.”
INDONESIA
A Pragmatic Eye on Finance
From O. G. RO E DE R in Djakarta
In this interview Indonesia’s Finance
Minister, Sultan Hamengku Buwono IX,
surveys his country’s economy, hope-
fully hut realistically, and outlines
measures to stop inflation.
Q. The Indonesian Government has
started with comprehensive and far-
reaching economic reforms. Could you
please give us the “strategy” of your
economic program?
A. The policy of the Cabinet to
to improve Indonesia’s economy is
based on realistic and rational prin-
ciples. Realistic means willing to face
the true facts about our economy, how-
ever bitter these facts may be. The
knowledge of the evil, faults, and weak-
nesses of our economy will enable us
to use a rational way of thinking to
overcome all these negative and de-
structive elements in order to create a
better economic situation. Rational
means an objective and scientific way
of thinking without being influenced by
Sultan Hamengku Buwono IX
violent personal emotions, political
ambitions, and state ideology utopianism.
From this explanation one can draw the
conclusion that we are now taking a
pragmatic attitude toward the pursuit
of our economic interest.
In order to reach economic stability
the Indonesian Government uses the
following strategy: a rescue program
to stop further economic deterioration;
stabilisation and rehabilitation to
recover former top levels of the
economy; and development to expand
it and to increase production.
Q. What is the difference between
Indonesia’s economic policy of the past
and the new approach?
A. The past policy which caused eco-
nomic deterioration contained the
following weak points: there was no
effective control from Parliament of the
Government’s economic policy; there
was no harmony between political and
economic interests; rational economic
principles were set aside in facing
economic problems.
In order to stop the economic
deterioration and to fight inflation, the
present Government uses the following
approach: it has reactivated the func-
tion of Parliament and the Financial
Control Committee (a non-govern-
mental body) to control the State Bud-
get; main priority will be given to im-
provement of economic problems of the
people above any other national prob-
lems. In implementing this new pro-
gram, the Government will avoid free-
fight liberalism and monopoly which
harms the people’s interests.
Q. Where are the main obstacles
opposing the present activities of the
Government in the field of economics?
A. The main obstacles are: political
instability; very serious monetary in-
flation; seriously damaged infra-struc-
ture; a disproportionately large body of
government employees; a very weak re-
serve of entrepreneurs; and lack of
domestic capital for and experience in
economic enterprises.
Q. Do you think that Indonesia’s
continuous political tensions will harm
the process of economic recovery?
A. Yes. If political tensions in Indo-
nesia keep dragging on, then they will
clearly hamper the efforts to improve
our economy. That is why the Indo-
nesian Government is now making every
possible effort to stabilise the political
situation as a base to reach economic
stabilisation. But it also depends on
whether our own national and group
leaders and also all our people really
want to strive for economic improve-
ment or not.
Q. Which do you think are the most
impressive positive results already
achieved during the past few months?
A. Among these are: re-scheduling of
foreign debts to give a breathing space;
a balanced Budget for 1967, without a
deficit (which was consistently the
major source of inflation in the past);
narrowing of the gap between the
official and free-market foreign ex-
change rate; restructuring of the bank-
ing system so as to secure a sound
banking operation; slowing down of the
general price increase, in spite of
traditional sharp increases in seasonal
food scarcity.
Q. In which sectors are shortcom-
ings most painful?
A. The most painful problems are:
austerity program for both routine and
development expenditures; non-subsidy
policy toward State enterprises; credit
squeeze; and the need to cut down the
large number of Government employees.
Q. What will be the position of
private enterprise in future?
A. Private enterprises will be de-
veloped and encouraged by non-
discriminatory treatment of State and
private enterprises; and using free-
market forces rather than direct Gov-
ernment interference for economic
development.


The Fictionaires
By CHARLES HIGHAM
(With the assistance of The Bulletm , s New York, London and Rome correspondents)
WHO WAS IT THAT GAVE THE WORD TO BLACKLIST DELLA
AUGUST IN EVERY MOVIE COMPANY IN TOWN? Was it Barney
Ryan, her double-dealing agent, with the shady and extremely profitable side-
line? Was it Jerome T. King, the powerful and very wealthy head of a financial
syndicate, a man with a doll-like wife who did her curvy best to make men forget
she was married? Or was it Erik Stanger, the lecherous producer-director, who
had stubbornly and quite unsuccessfully tried to lure Della to his bed for 14 years?
With these peremptory blurb-writers'
questions, “Blonde on the Rocks,” one
of Carter Brown’s most successful
books, opens, and the first page
plunges one right into the brew:
“She wrenched the heavy drapes
back from the plateglass wall in an
abrupt movement, and her heavy silk
negligee was no protection against the
harsh sunlight that suddenly flooded
the room. Then, aware that her beam
tiful body was fully exposed in breath-
taking silhouette, she slowly turned in
profile, so I received the further impact
of the swelling curve of her jutting
breasts . . .” Expert mixtures of
violence and sexual tension, Carter
Brown’s novels have placed him at the
head of the pop stakes for Australian
authors: he has sold 40 million copies
in the past 16 years, and appears in
most languages . . . back pockets sprout
copies of his books from Tokyo to the
Bahamas. And only a little way behind
him is a surprisingly commercially
strong group of Australian authors, all
of whom, in a country whose publishers
have notoriously failed to capture and
keep their potential best-sellers, have
become businessmen on a gigantic scale.
Workhorses without literary preten-
sions for the most part, they have,
chiefly by going initially to London and
New York and finding out how to
manufacture the product, been able to
live here for at least part of the time
since, carpentering goods in the back-
yard which have reached, via New
York or London publishers, bookstalls
all over the world. Jon Cleary, Morris
West, D’Arcy Niland, Russell Braddon,
Maysie Greig, Catherine Gaskin . . .
these are some of the most notable
names on the list, and what they all
have in common is the stamina of cham-
pion riveters.
Carter Brown (Alan Yates) sets his
books in exotic locations, most notably
in the mythical purlieus of Pine City,
U.S.A. His own house carries a slightly
exotic flavor, too: white carpets and
walls, a lamp with an oriental head
as its stand, an impression of Eastern
figures and wall decorations in a
Beverly Hills-like ambience. Outside,
there is a swimming pool, and in the
offing the discreet withdrawn houses
of St. Ives, N.S.W., with snow-white
cartwheels to be found, picturesquely
alone, on groomed lawns. Yates him-
self is quiet, almost scholarly, with mild
blue eyes behind thickly framed spec-
tacles; he talks about his work with-
out excitement or vanity. Typically
among best-selling authors, he regards
each successive book as a piece of car-
pentry, to be as neatly turned out of
the workshop as possible: no guff here
about art, or about improving public
taste. Methodical—though he often
works in spurts close to a deadline—
he is very far removed from the tough,
slangy, extrovert heroes of his enorm-
ously successful pulp titles.
Yates was in the Royal Navy in
1948; he had written scripts for the
BBC, came to Australia, and did
Westerns and space stories for a time.
Horwitz had a dynamic editor, Alistair
Innes, who used to hold conferences
in a heavily curtained room, with drinks
and food in the offing to be slid out
of fitted, lavishly stocked cupboards in
the walls just as in a Carter Brown
novel; Innes, other staff members and
Yates worked out the name of Carter
Brown, devising a mystery series which
would have Chandlerish overtones but
would feature more lighthearted detec-
tives, less kinky and with more liberal
sex, as well as an air of ritzy living.
But Lieut. A 1 Wheeler and other Brown
heroes were not to be glamorous or
unusually gifted: they had to have a
realistic, slightly seedy air to ensure
readership identification among males.
As sales gradually built, the pressure
from Horwitz became savage; Yates once
wrote a 50,000 word book in four days.
He learned to dispense with the usual
business of making plots up in advance,
blocking them in chapter by chapter;
instead, with a novel a fortnight to bring
out, set in an America about which he
knew nothing, he had to make the
stories up as he went along, allowing
himself to be caught up in a dexedrine
trance-state until the work was finished.
In 1958, nine years after the first
Carter Browns, with their typical
negligeed beauties, thrusting phallic
guns and growling faces on the covers,
hit the Gordon and.Gotch stands here,
Stanley Horwitz sold the Brown idea
to New American Library, New York.
At first, NAL hadn’t been interested:
they already published Mickey Spil-
lane and thought Carter Brown too
light. But, after two years, a market
change moved NAL away from an exclu-
Morris West
sive commitment to the heavily sadistic
type of fiction Spillane purveyed, and
Carter Brown was launched. Now, with
a steady six titles a year and long
sojourns abroad, Yates is firmly
established.
He doesn’t believe in having strong
characters for the villain a la lan
Fleming, preferring the sense of a
powerful and impersonal organisation
against which the hero pits himself.
Did he have any taboos? “Any crime
against a child is taboo. Kidnapping to
a slightly lesser degree than attack and
rape. So far as sex is concerned, so
many have outdistanced me since I
first started, I no longer run into
trouble here or abroad. In fact, I’ve
become rearguard and institutional ”
Yates’ heroes, A 1 Wheeler, Danny
Boyd, a private detective, and Rick
Holman, an investigator mixed up in
the film industry (Holman stories have
Hollywood settings) brush up against
a series of pulse-racing women mixed
up in mayhem, and this combination
of old-fashioned sex and tension still
works in an era of SF, psychedelic
drugs, and the rise of the non-fiction
novel.
Very different is another author pub-
lished by Horwitz, J. E. Macdonnell.
His navy books are almost as clean as
C. S. Forrester’s: few Monsarrat-like
rollings around in the bedroom after
weeks of stern, spotless living at sea in
these asbestos pages. “I hate writing
sex material it embarrasses me. But
I sometimes have orders to put it in,”
Macdonnell told me resignedly.
A former Royal Australian Navy


man, Macdonnell worked for THE
BULLETIN in the ’forties, writing the
Personal Items page. A book of his
BULLETIN articles on his naval experi-
ances, “Valiant Occasions,” apeared
successfully in London; and in 1952
he had a huge success with his war
novel, “Gimme the Boats,” which sold
half a million copies through Corgi
Books. Other successful books were
“Wings Off the Sea” and “Sub-
smash.” He sells very well in the
U.S.A. and Britain as well as here.
L IKE Yates, Macdonnell has used as
his central character an ordinary
modest but rugged man with whom male
readers can sympathise and identify:
Jim Brady, “a physically strong bloke
with an inferiority complex who comes
from the lower decks, is suspicious of
his fellow officers, but finally gets over
all that and finds himself through proof
of his courage in action,” Macdonnell
said. Brady is at once a fulfilment of
Australian myth fantasies and a physical
reflection in some ways of the author
direct and square-shouldered him-
self. Macdonnell, now working as hard
on the treadmill as Carter Brown at
his production peak, is batting out
three thousand words a day, five
days a week, with a day to prepare a
sketch outline of the plot; in three
weeks he finishes a 45,000-word book.
As Kerry Mitchell, he turns out a
medical series, in which a young doctor
is faced with day-to-day problems in
a big hospital: a sympathetic character
more like a Kildare than a Ben Casey,
although his name is Ben Grady. Some
times Brian Temple takes the centre of
the stage (“he’s an obstetrician, to get
the women in”). James Dark books
deal with international espionage. Mac-
donnell leaps from James Dark to
Kerry Mitchell to his own name books
with little sense, he says, of strain; an
income of $11,500 a year helps, and he
is built for hours of solid typing. “I’ve
just had orders to dash off two more
books in a row on American PT boats,”
he told me with just a touch of exhaus-
tion in the voice. “Both to be written
in the next four weeks. I’ve written
110 soft-covered books and several in
hard covers. Ideally, I’d like to alter-
nate six soft covers a year with six
hard covers. But I haven’t got to that
stage yet.”
No less durable and cast-iron con-
stituted is F. J. Thwaites, author of
romances and romantic thrillers,
which have scarcely varied in tone and
approach over 30 years, but still enjoy
a thriving sale. His first book was
“The Broken Melody,” written about
36 years ago when he was still in his
teens. “I took it around—it was the
story of a cellist who was cured of
the drug habit and discovered by an
English pianist, who takes him back
from England and helps him to a
career, at the end he returns and buys
a property —to publishers here and
they wouldn’t touch it; they hadn’t
brought out an Australian book in five
years.
“It was the Depression. Finally I
went to the N.S.W. Bookstall and they
told me to lock it away in a drawer
of my desk and forget it. Well, there
was only one thing to do. I had some
money left me by my grandmother
and published it myself. I piled all
the copies in the back of my car and
drove to Queensland. They said to me.
‘ls your book Australian?’ I said, ‘Yes ’
They said, ‘Sorry, not interested.’ 1
went west and the same thing hap-
pened. Finally I went to the Riverina.
The book started to sell. It spread
across the country. Finally the city. It
sold a million, Cinesound made a pic-
ture of it, and I got all the money.”
Ever since, until a recent arrangement
with Horwitz, Thwaites published his
own books: he has sold 10 million in
hard covers, and has taken 100 percent
instead of the usual 10 percent profits—
minus overheads and print costs, the
equivalent of 100 million sales: a
F. J. Thwaites
unique situation which other writers
might well emulate in this area. He
has serialised his own novels as well,
on many stations, including 2UW,
2UE, and 2CH. He travels constantly
in search of the exotic locations where
his stories are set: from Vancouver to
Mexico by car, overland from London
to the Orient.
Similar to Thwaites in many ways —
although more masculine in his themes,
less romantic and soft Jon Cleary
also sets his books in exotic places that
provide escape for the housebound. His
“The Sundowners,” about a simple-
hearted itinerant worker and his wife,
sold three million copies and was turned
into a lavishly mounted film by Fred
Zinnemann. Since then, Cleary has
had an even bigger success with “The
Green Helmet,” a story of racing
drivers, rather badly filmed in Britain
with Bill Travers as star. Several other
books have been bought for filming,
or optioned: Cleary, a film buff from
childhood, thoroughly enjoys being in-
volved in production.
He writes like his confreres swiftly
and methodically, directly on to the
typewriter, in his case averaging 1500
words a day. If the story is coming
along well, the 1500 words would
emerge in two and a half hours, “if
it’s introspective stuff all day.” He says:
“I block out chapters like Scott Fitz-
gerald. I’ve got an inbuilt editor in
my head to prevent my going on too
long. Readership identification is
essential. I remember when I first
started writing for the ‘Saturday Even-
ing Post.’ The fiction editor there said:
“When I buy a story round here I like
to feel I could have these characters at
home for the evening’.” Like other pop
writers, Cleary believes that the sym-
pathetic, of course central figure must
extricate himself from difficulties by his
own wits, that fortune mustn’t step in.
Critics are of no use. “I seldom see
reviews. I remember when my first book
came out in America. The publishers
sent me two reviews. One was by Paul
Engel, a first-class minor poet at North-
Western University. He compared the
book to ‘Studs Lonigan’ and said it was
‘on the edge of greatness.’ Nonsense,
of course. The “New York Post’s” lady
said the book had won a major literary
prize in Australia which made her fear
for the future of Australia.” Cleary
shrugged. “You see, it doesn’t matter.
It’s just one person’s opinion against
another’s.”
WEST’S books have a more
serious tone: they aspire to the con-
dition of literature. His first book,
“Children of the Sun,” about the life
of poor boys in Naples, was published
in England in the ’fifties after being
rejected by many American publishers
and handled with misgivings by his
London agent. It was published in an
edition of only 2500 copies, but sud-
denly became a succes d’estime and sold
25,000.
That was only the beginning. “The
Devil’s Advocate,” West’s first huge
success about a man’s test for saint-
hood in Italy was suggested to him
as a subject by Paul Reynolds, his
New York agent, while they were
walking in the New York State forests.
He has sold a total of eight to ten
million copies of his books internation-
ally. “Shoes of the Fisherman,” its
publication impeccably timed to co-
incide with the death of the last Pope,
was the biggest single hit, with four
million sales. West is currently in
Rome, working on the film adaptation
of the novel after a previous script by
a Hollywood writer had turned out to
be unsatisfactory.
Typically, West an old Sydney
radio man works nine-to-five days,
finishing a book in rather longer time
than most pop authors: 18 months.
But he spends a great deal of that time
on research. He bats out 1000 words a
day at the beginning, gradually
accelerating to 2000-2500 words a day
later on. His current book is on the
Jewish-Arab conflict.
Like many writers, West uses a


fSS'SSa*
air conditioning
‘the best climate,
in the world’
Cool air? Warm air? Filtered air?
A room or a skyscraper?
Westinghouse air conditioning
provides the best climate in the world.
Any size. Any situation. Anywhere in Australia.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
EMAIL A WHOLLY AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE.
MELBOURNE □ SYDNEY □ BRISBANE □ ADELAIDE □ PERTH
2677 /53 /67
Let us mail you this package , _
it tells you how
Your money
earns more
at
with the
6
%
NET P.A.
Current Rate
M
PERMANENT’
and is promptly available!
Contains an interesting selection of
secured investment and savings plans
plus balance sheet shows you how
over 50,000 Australians have invested
safely and profitably the ‘N.S.W. Per-
manent’ way!
★ Starts earning from first day.
it Higher-than-average interest for first-class,
gilt-edged security.
it Money not tied up—promptly available
when required.
it Secured safety—assets exceed $30,000,000.
it No costs or charges of any kind.
* Earnings paid twice yearly, mid-June and
mid-December.
SAFETY
Registered under the
Co-operation Act.
TO: N.S.W. PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.,
“Co-operation House,” 125 Bathurst Street (between
Castlereagh and Pitt Streets), Sydney. Phone 61-8721.
Please mail me your new Investment Pack, without
obligation to me.
Name
technique of simple dialogue and des-
cription, and tightly interlocking, filmic
scenes. “But I don’t block it out rigidly
because that leaves no room for the
imagination, the IBM relations of the
mind to function,” he told THE
BULLETIN’S Rome correspondent.
Like Yates and the others, he lives
well: also in St. Ives while in Sydney,
and in Rome at a villa with a swim-
ming pool.
More modestly, Norman Lindsay is
at Springwood, N.S.W.; one of the
first of Australian best-sellers, his “A
Curate in Bohemia” went through 23
editions, and his “Magic Puddin’ ” for
children has been a perennial success;
“The Cautious Amorist” sold half a
million or more in America.
Also successful on a more modest
scale was John O’Grady, whose
“They’re a Weird Mob” was a hit only
in Australia.
Russell Braddon began in the late
’forties as scriptwriter/manager to the
Piddingtons’ mind-reading act in Eng-
land. “Publishers started appearing
from everywhere wanting a book on the
Piddingtons, But they were all so
bloody rude about it —until along came
George Greenfield, who was then with
the now defunct Werner Laurie, and
who was sympathetic,” Braddon said.
“H E was so darn nice about it that I
agreed to write the book, provided
Sid Piddington came along and joined
me in the daily overnight tennis queue
outside the All-England Tennis Club at
Wimbledon. I wanted to see the cham-
pionships. The publishers wanted the
book in a hurry. The only way we
both could get what we wanted was
for Sid and Lesley Piddington to feed
me up on coffee and give me their
story.
“Most of the material for ‘The Pid-
dingtons’ (and a lot for ‘The Naked
Island’) came from those initial inter-
views on the pavement outside the All-
England Club.
“ ‘The Piddingtons’ sold 32,000.
When I finished, it was George Green-
field who pointed out that apart from
a great amount of material left over
from ‘The Piddingtons,’ there must be
an excellent story to be told of the
Jap POW camp. ‘The Naked Island’
was published the day King George VI
died which didn’t seem to help its
prospects. But ‘The Naked Island’
went to 21 editions, has sold 100,000
hardbacks (and is still selling as a
hardback) plus one million paperbacks
(and is still selling).”
Braddon has averaged a book a year
since then all virtually best-sellers.
His “Cheshire V.C.,” published in
1954, sold 750,000. “Those In Peril,”
published in 1956, sold 30,000. “Out
of the Storm” 20,000, in 1957, “Nancy
Wake” the same year sold 250,000.
“I’m weak-willed and lazy,” Braddon
claims; he has to force himself to get
down to the task. He writes a minimum
of nine hours a day but often goes for
16 hours at a stretch (this will include
researching, writing, revising). His


original draft is then handed over to
his male secretary to be typed. Then
he goes through it again, cutting
mercilessly and correcting. Most of his
subjects are offered to him. His novels
are often based on items in the news.
Braddon doesn’t use a typewriter,
can’t do shorthand, and can’t dictate.
It takes him about a year to complete
a book, including the research, the
interviewing, writing, and correcting
galley proofs. He has worked faster
“Cheshire V.C.” took ten weeks, “but
I was ashamed of the result,” he says.
He likes to start a book at the begin-
ning and finish at the end, but admits
to writing two or three chapters which
may finish in the centre of the book.
•Something of the pressure that best-
selling writers experience can be gauged
from the fact that D’Arcy Niland was
too busy on a rush novel job to see
me for this article. His method of work
has not varied greatly since the writing
of “The Shiralee,” his first novel, which
sold 750,000 copies. Ruth Park wrote
to me: “His writing time on a novel
varies. Perhaps three or four months
is a reasonable estimate. Niland is a
methodical worker, starting at 10 a.m.
and working right through to 4.30
He works another four hours or so
after dinner. These hours obtain seven
days a week when he is working flat
out on a novel, as he is at present.
“This book, ‘Dead Men Running,’
required two months’ intensive back-
ground research. Its writing was inter-
rupted by an assignment to do the
screenplay for ‘Call Me When The
Cross Turns Over.’ This screenplay,
for Twentieth Century-Fox, was done in
London. He enjoys script-writing be-
cause of the spare, tight writing
required by the medium, and considers
its greatest disadvantage is the con-
stant interference by nearly every
executive around the studio. This is
traditional, and extravagantly wasteful
of time, manpower, and money.
“Niland lives in Australia because
after extensive travel he still prefers
it. He has had no difficulty making a
living by writing here. If he seriously
intended going after script assignments
only, he thinks it best to be on the spot
in London or California.
HL has no difficulty in leading the
life of an ordinary businessman.
Writing is one thing, marketing another,
and the writer who fails to learn busi-
ness principles and practice is both vain
and foolish. Writing itself does not have
to be commercial, but selling always is.”
D’Arcy Niland’s books, one might
add, are extremely physical, full of men
proving their masculinity; their theme,
to quote George Johnston, “the mate or
the mob as a kind of justification for
being.” The characters are straight-
forward and clean-cut, warm and non-
intellectual; like Macdonnells, the
heroes are Australian myth figures,
modest, strong, not over-articulate.
Women authors have not here figured
so prominently in the field, but three
have done notably well: Lucy Walker,
Catherine Gaskin, and—most durable
and prolific of all—Maysie Greig.
Lucy Walker, teaching in England
13 years ago, published “The One Who
Kisses,” a romantic novel which sold
350,000 copies, she now lives in Western
Australia, setting of most of her books.
Other novels have sold almost equiva-
lent figures: “The Other Girl” and
“The Man from Outback” notable
among them. She uses, in her own
words, “ordinary domestic situations
against the well-organised farm or
station that does not lack amenities. I
write about love because the love situa-
tion is understood by everyone ... I
leave out the sordid and tragic because
these books are for entertainment.”
So does Catherine Gaskin, whose
first big success was “This Other Eden,”
published in 1946 when she was 17
years old, a student at Holy Cross
College, Woollahra. In 20 years she
has written 12 novels, mostly successful.
D’Arcy Niland
“Sara Dane,” her first big historical
novel with an Australian setting, sold
a million; since then her books have
had largely overseas settings. She
writes, calmly and methodically, three
pages a day, making up the sotry
like Alan Yates as she goes along.
She has used New York exurbia as a
setting for “Corporation Wife,” and is
working on a book with a background
of the Virgin Islands. She does a great
deal of research: for this new novel
she bought at the local Virgin Islands
shop, $3OO worth of books on the fur-
niture, houses, “and other aspects of
life” in the islands. Married to a suc-
cessful TV producer, Catherine Gaskin
lives in New York and the Virgins, and
travels a great deal.
For 40 years, Maysie Greig has been
the doyenne of Australian pop writers.
Currently in Spain, she has published
more than 200 romances, some of them
filmed in the ’twenties, with stars like
Janet Gaynor. Her early book, “The
Love Gamble,” was the first of these
to be sold to Hollywood. Maysie Greie
writes:
“I was living in the States in the
’twenties, in Cambridge, Mass., attend-
ing a playwriting course at Harvard
University. Beacon Hill, the Bohemian
section of Boston, took my fancy.
And as it happened, the editor
of a tabloid newspaper asked me to
write a serial about Boston. And thus
I wrote ‘Peggy of Beacon Hill.’ Since
it had to be illustrated, I got a number
of my university friends to pose for the
photographs.
“Afterwards, Small, Maynard and
Co. offered to publish my serial as a
novel, selling 40,000 copies of it. And
to my great pleasure, they also sold the
film rights to Hollywood. However,
they changed the title to ‘The Love
Gamble’ and invited me to Hollywood
to help in the adaptation. But all I had
to do was to pose for publicity pictures
with a huge inkpot in front of me,
although at the time I used a type-
writer.
“Since then I have published many
books, but only ‘Doctor’s Wife’ sold
a million copies, mostly in paperback.
Then came ‘Satin Straps,’ also filmed in
those silent days, like ‘Luxury Husband,’
‘Rich Man, Poor Girl’ and, later in
England, ‘The Island of Fear.’ At which
my movie career has come to an end.”
JT'ROM all these writers, ranging from
the tough and hard-boiled (Brown,.
Cleary) through the shrewdly topical
(West), to the female romance (Wal-
ker, Greig), certain clear lessons for
the would-be best-seller can be
learned. First, a visit to the gym:
you’re going to have to write anything
up to eight hours a day solid. Your
hero or heroine must be intelligent,
normal, sensible, non-intellectual, and
never lost sight of from one end of
the book to the other. He or she must
be found in locales which offer wish-
fulfilment to the office worker or house-
wife. Sex, whether crude or wishy-
washy, and a series of threats to the
central protagonist (overcome by his-
own efforts) must be central to the
formula, with the narrative’s outcome
upbeat. Prose must be simple, fast-
moving, unworrying: it is likely to be
forgettable as well.
In a sense those housewives and
vacuum-cleaner salesmen we all know
about who plan to write That Book
have more chance of success in this
field than the professor or poet or
editor or unsuccessful “clever novelist”
who suddenly decides to produce a
“Forever Amber,” or a “Valley of the
Dolls.” While the highbrow would sit
there laughing at his own “exciting”
plot, thus ruining the conviction of the
work, the pop author will be caught
up in it totally, like the audience out
there waiting for it in its millions,
and of which he is, in the last analysis,
an excited member after all.


How can a sleuth check 1,000 suspects,
then pinpoint the villain-in one hour flat?
. ..A V,
\;;r "AM
HJkaflfcft. - ' - 4
4' MAS*
!. ’ :
T.R. A.C.E. (Tape-controlled Recording Automatic Checkout Equipment) is the
answer. Can make 1,000 checks an hour. Shows a time-saving in the region of
90% when compared to manual methods of checking aircraft systems and
equipment. In its first year of operation with BO AC, T.R. A.C.E. saved more than
its capital cost by enabling amongst other things a reduction in spares holdings.
Hawker Siddeley know how.
Hawker Siddeley know through T.R.A.C.E., an
electronic inspection system. If aircraft have suspect
faults T.R.A.C.E. checks them out. Whether the fault
exists or not, it pinpoints the fact-fast. Hawker
Siddeley Dynamics developed T.R.A.C.E. Now
BOAC, Alitalia, the Royal Navy and the French
Government use it.
T.R.A.G.E. is one example of Hawker Siddeley
ingenuity. There are many more. Namely the products
that make Hawker Siddeley a world-size industrial
group.
Hawker Siddeley products go down on the farm-
haul trains-steer and power ships-probe space-
build and equip power stations-roll roads-fly
people-store heat-transform electricity-pack food
-fuel aircraft. And maintain a daily turnover of over
$A2| million.
T.R.A.C.E. is part of this turnover, but only part.
That’s what makes Hawker Siddeley a group. With
group power.
13?
HAWKER
SIDDELEY
18 ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I.
Represented in Australia by: Aviation: Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty.
Ltd., Lidcombe, New South Wales. Industrial: Hawker Siddeley Brush Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, Victoria.
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service


ONE MORE
WEEK
Retaliation
ALMOST every international air pas-
senger who comes to Australia objects
to the spraying of the interior of the
plane on arrival with insect repellent,
a procedure which annoys passengers,
but, we would think, doesn’t even give
any free-wheeling flea a headache.
However, last week, hours after a plane-
load of American tourists protested
loudly in Darwin about this treatment,
the American Bio-satellite I. containing
a rich assortment of landed on
Australian territory. Now that’s what
we call massive retaliation.
Facelift
EVERY PICTURE, as an old adver-
tisement used to say, tells a story. We
were at a loss to
understand what
story this picture
told. What you are
supposed to be look-
ing at is the wall.
It is a wall of his-
toric Cranbrook
School for boys,
Bellevue Hill, Syd-
ney. The school has
just had its first
major facelift in
over a century.
The textured wall is
part of the facelift;
the boy is part of
the school; the girl is just part of the
picture.
Takeover
THE DEAD HAND of the Victorian
National Theatre has fallen on Mel-
bourne’s huge Princess Theatre. They
have leased it for three years, with
options, and plan ultimately to buy it.
The National, which for some inexplic-
able reason, is generously subsidised by
the Victorian Government, is a lack-
lustre outfit, whose most dynamic con-
tribution to Melbourne’s culture is the
occasional production of “Rio Rita.”
Their previous theatre, in Toorak
Village, was destroyed by fire just
before being officially opened. As Sir
Thomas Beecham said when an
elephant defecated during “Aida”
“dreadful stage manners, but great
criticism.”
A Bit of Dirt
AUSTRALIANS have not taken
kindly to the vertical suburbia of the
home unit. Home-unit managers agree
that more drama goes on behind the
balconies in the average block of home
units than would occur in a dozen
feud-torn suburban streets. This is
understandable enough since the home-
unit building may house a hundred
people, stacked neatly like books on a
shelf, on a block of ground which
would once have been considered a
suitable “bit of dirt” for one single
house. Most unit-dwellers are inclined
to feel that the neighbors are tres-
passing.
The illusion of being able to have
one’s own piece of this wide brown
land persists; the fact that sales of
houses have been steadily increasing
over about the same 10-year period
which has seen the rising skyline, is
proof of this.
Now Strata Development Corpora-
tion are merging the two styles in
what may be the first medium-density
housing-project yet introduced in this
country. Popular overseas, particularly
in Scandinavian countries, this form
of group housing has the same inten-
tion as the home unit, in that paths
and lawns remain common property
managed by a body corporate and only
strata titles are given when the money
changes hands. However, each two-
storey house has an enclosed courtyard
ranging in size from 700 to 1200 square
feet; this provides the magic feeling
that the homeowner has his own back-
yard.
In actual fact the backyard will be
landscaped in the first instance and
judiciously supervised thereafter, but
if the unit owner doesn’t take to rais-
ing chickens and doesn’t let his papyrus
plant get out of hand he will be left
alone. Contrary to the usual rules of
home-unit living he will be able to
keep a dog or a cat. Children are also
likely to be a good commodity to have
in these units, since there will be more
play space than the usual cramped
balcony gives.
Guiding spirit behind this new-style
housing, and jumping with enthusiasm
at the prospect of producing 60 such
houses in half a dozen Sydney areas in
the next few months, is Max Bowen,
until recently marketing manager for
Lend Lease. After a brief stretch on
his own when he began producing high-
style project houses (now sold to Sterl-
ing Northside Limited) Bowen was in-
vited to join Strata Development as
general manager for housing. Gradu-
ate of a hard school —the land and
housing business over the past seven
years —Bowen believes that medium-
density housing is the answer.
“Each unit is a real house,” he said,
moving about his North Sydney office
with the restless eagerness of a man
with a message. “Downstairs, normal
living areas; upstairs, three bedrooms
and two bathrooms. Hard paving and
major trees provided in the courtyards
and the whole thing on a site that no
individual would be in the race to buy
for a private home.”
The price of each unit will be about
$27,000, but, as they are judiciously
placed on picked sites in areas like
Cremorne, Lindfield, and Palm Beach,
value is there.
The questioji, of course, is whether
or not they will sell, which will depend
on whether Australians can accept the
mollification of having a “bit of dirt”
to almost call his own though his
strata title is as airy as ever.
Chaucer in the Bush
IN THIS STEAMY MONTH of Feb-
ruary, actor Rob Inglis, in rough wool
robe—the sort of thing which might
have kept Chaucer warm through a
medieval English winter—is travelling
up and down the Hunter Valley of
New South Wales, giving his one-man
interpretation of “The Canterbury
Tales,” in Neville Coghill’s translation,
for the Arts Council.
Chaucer in the bush sounds an
unlikely enterprise, but Mr. Inglis has
already visited many N.S.W. centres (he
filled the Canberra Playhouse for three
nights) and more seasonably and more
comfortably will be doing “The Can-
terbury Tales” in South Australia in
June and in Tasmania in July.
Mr. Inglis devised his “Canterbury
Tales” program which includes “The
Wife of Bath’s Tale,” “The Pardoner’s
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
I don’t know what Marrickville
Margarine intends to do but Daisy
hasn’t heard the last of me yet.
Mrs. Jones.
Run for *your life.
Jess Jarver of the National
Fitness Council.
So when Chairman Mao says,
“Serve the People,” when he exhorts
the Chinese to put all thought of
themselves aside and work whole-
heartedly for the revolution, he’s
talking like a Christian.
Neale Hunter in the “Catholic Worker.”
The typical Australian theatre
audience is over-respectful and over-
respectable.
Robert Quentin.
Sure Vietnam’s a dirty war. I’ve
never heard of a clean one.
My father always told me that
if you saw a man in a Rolls-Royce
you could be certain he was not a
gentleman, unless he was the chauf-
feur.
The Earl of Arran.
Aboriginals did not build up this
country the white man did.
Alderman Moran of the
Sydney City Council.
Voters under 25 still have ideals
and are not cynical.
Mr. Whitlam.
Wearing a skirt halfway up the
thigh does not give a woman an
advantage.
Gabrielle Chanel.
The way Australian men wear
shorts contributes something to the
world picture of fashion.
Bob Hope.
Hardy Amies.


Tale,” and “The Miller’s Tale” during
his years in England. He gave some
performances there, including television
ones.
In England he appeared with the
Royal Shakespeare Company in its
Theatre of Cruelty season. He found
this somewhat depressing. He also ap-
peared for 3| years in “Oliver,” another
depressing experience.
It seems that if there are not enough
theatres for actors to find work in,
actors are prepared to go out and earn
a living with only what they can hold
in their own heads. Mr. Inglis at the
moment is only one of several. The
Arts Council has always encouraged this
sort of enterprise ■— a one-man show
does have a basic appeal to any organ-
isation which must budget carefully
but of late there seems to have been
something of a rush of actors to public
libraries and, subsequently, an avalanche
of one-man shows on the road.
English actress Rosalinde Fuller,
who has toured for the Arts Council
before, will do a program of de Mau-
passant stories. One of the first in the
field, Peter O’Shaughnessy, will tour
with his “King Lear” and his program
of Australian writing, “You Wouldn’t
Read About It.” John Llewellyn, after
touring New Zealand with his “Dylan
Thomas Revisited” will do a N.S.W.
tour after the Sydney season. Edward
Hepple and Alistair Duncan are going
in tandem to schools, Hepple with
Lawrence’s “Sons and Lovers,” Duncan
with “Huckleberry Finn.”
It can be extremely hard work. It
may, only with luck and some help,
become an established part of local
theatre. But with Mr. Inglis- it seems
to have made the difference between
an actor doing the sort of work he
wants to do and doing any sort of
work.
Last year he fitted highly successful
appearances in “Tiny Alice” at the Old
Tote, and in the Jane Street season
of Australian plays in between his
country tours with Chaucer. His
enthusiasm is for Chaucer but it is
also for getting up there in front of
an audience. Chaucer has meant that
he has not done much television,
although he was in Peter O’Shaugh-
nessy’s folk-song program, “The Rest-
less Years.” It has also meant that he
has not had to scurry around Sydney
with briefcase and worried frown
chasing a living via radio serials and
television commercials.
After he returns from the Hunter
he immediately begins rehearsals with
“Voyage of the Endeavour,” a drama-
tised presentation of Captain Cook’s
voyages. This is another Arts Council
presentation intended first for schools,
but Mr. Inglis hopes later to get it
through to adult audiences.
“Voyage of the Endeavour” is dotte
with a cast of six. Mr. Inglis originally
wrote the script for the Commonwealth
Festival. It was commissioned by the
New Zealand Government, the Austra-
lian Government being preoccupied
with ballet and orchestral music.
Tanner ' s Opera House
"Its purpose was never clearly stated it's really a debating
hall, for the ABC and the Elizabethan Theatre Trust."
"Shh! They've just started the mad scene."
"She's a multi-purpose performer."


W-
y#
Ml
yj
1
O
r >
©
<t
-
> -
Loading a Wabco/LW Haulpak at Australian Blue Metal’s main quarry, Gosnells, W.A.
S
Le tourneau-westinghouse
Australian Blue Metal’s quarry at Gosnells, W.A.,
operates two LW27 and two LW32 Haulpak Rear
Dump Trucks. These units are operating from
quarry face to crusher, on a short haul, but
involving considerable down grades under load.
Wabco/LW Haulpak trucks are designed to meet
all tough handling conditions. Built-in safety
features include four independent braking sys-
tems and a strong proven power steering system
throughout. Big, efficient heavy-duty service
brakes on all four wheels provide plenty of
braking power to stop quickly and safely under
full load. Result: operator will use higher travel
speeds with complete confidence . . . move more
tons per shift.
SAFETY AND HAULPAK REAR DUMPS ARE SYNONYMOUS
Available in sizes from 30 to 105 ton capacities
UVABCD
Le tourneau-westinghouse pty. ltd.
a subsidiary of Westinghouse Air Brake Co.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
SPECIALISED SALES, SERVICE AND PARTS FACILITIES IN ALL STATES
t tor EXPORT
LW291.106


AROUND MELBOURNE
Meeting a White Hunter from the N.T.
Allan stewart is in town
this week. He is here to
arrange the publication of two
books. Almost everything about
him is a little surprising. He is a
former Black Watch lieutenant, and
CMF lieutenant-colonel, a former
PR man, he has spent 30 days in
Fanny Bay jail and presently he
makes a living out of being a sort
of Alan Quartermain.
The Fanny Bay business is inter-
esting. He was being sued for six
weeks’ maintenance and because of
a mix-up between Allan, solicitor,
and court, he failed to turn up and
the judge gave him 30 days for
contempt.
He says it wasn’t altogether an
unpleasant experience. He spent
most of the time writing the book
“Yes, We Have No Bwanas,” which
will be published by Landsdowne in
several months. During this time
Her Majesty paid him ninepence a
day and he said: “As soon as I got
out I took my cheque for 22/6 and
went into the rather exclusive
Darwin Club, cashed it at the bar
and bought the ex-Commissioner of
Police, Clive Graham, a drink. It
caused rather a sensation in the bar.
Yes, I made 22/6 and in the mean-
time I lost £7OO in revenue.”
Nourlangie is a safari camp in
west Arnhem Land, one of three in
the area by the South Alligator
River. He has been running it for
the past nine years. That story is
a little surprising, too. When first
he was granted the lease, the Lands
Department made a survey error of
five miles which put him in an
Aboriginal area and a wild-life sanc-
tuary. A legal battle over this went
on for several years until he won his
point after a special session of the
Appeals Court, and now his lease is
assured for 25 years. If one knows
the full story it helps the understand-
ing of three notices that are nailed
on one tree and the visitor sees them
as he drives into Nourlangie. They
announce: Aboriginal reserve —Wild-
life sanctuary, use of firearms
forbidden —Hunting camp.
He said that his ambition to do
this sort of thing goes back a long
way. When he was in the Middle
East and Darwin, he had this dream
to be a sort of Alan Quartermain.
“I was doing PR in Sydney and I
had some good accounts. I was sent
up to the Humptydoo project with
the assignment: ‘Find out a way how
to stop the journalists writing about
the geese eating the rice, they’re
putting off the investors.’ That was
it. I stayed.”
Your correspondent visited Nour-
langie last year, arriving by light
aircraft. That day, Allan was bring-
ing the stores from Darwin, across
the 180 appalling miles in an elderly
Dodge. His radiator plug came
adrift, and, having no water, he had
to refill it with a dozen cans of
Victoria Bitter. Only the dweller
in the outback could understand the
enormity of this sacrifice.
Nourlangie consists of maybe a
dozen wirescreen cabins, a large mess
hall, showers and, ah, mercifully,
flush toilets. Then, in the true
traditions of the hunting raj, there
is a recreation room with billiard
table.
He gets, maybe, 200 visitors a
year. He charges $l2 a day, plus
guide fees and hire of guns, boats,
etc. The average charge all in is
$2O a day. In April he plans to
start the instant executive safari,
$4OO for a week, all inclusive, from
Melbourne. That tired executive
gets on the jet in the south, connects
with a light aircraft at Darwin, and
goes straight to the camp where he
gets five days of the Solomon’s
Mines treatment.
Stewart’s amateur white hunters
vary a good deal. He has had Chips
Rafferty, Stirling Moss, Lowell
Thomas, and Reg Ansett is a regular.
Mr. Ansett wanders around in an
old pair of shorts, socks, rolled
down over Army boots, and an
old hat. Rupert Murdoch has been;
a somewhat impetuous hunter,
according to Allan. He went run-
ning after a wounded buffalo and it
took them an uneasy hour to find
him. However, he got that buffalo.
Then there is a good stream of
Americans. They get booked in by
the American travel agencies. A
Allan Stewart
while back there was a visiting party
of eight American widow million-
airesses. The oldest was 84 and the
youngest 70. They were really with
it. They sang, danced, and drank
all night. They didn’t shoot any
buffalo but they wanted to see them
being shot. As a farewell gesture
they insisted on putting messages in
bottles addressed to their grand-
children in the U.S., then they tossed
the bottles in the South Alligator.
Allan did not have the heart to
tell them that at Nourlangie the
river was a landlocked billabong and
the prospects of delivery were not
entirely 100 percent.
The amount of game in the area
is fantastic. Coming into the circuit
area before landing, one sees herds
of buffalo everywhere. Indeed the
majority of the 300,000 buffalo in
the Northern Territory appear to be
in the area. Before touchdown it
is also wise to check that they are
not actually on the strip. Some-
times they even wander through the
camp at night. While dozing at
3 a.m. it can be an unnerving experi-
ence to hear a 20001 b. bull buffalo
trying to cure a difficult itch on the
side of your hut.
The food at the camp doesn’t
vary. If you don’t like wild pig,
goose, barramundi, and buffalo
steak, you don’t eat. These are
plentiful and easy to be had. The
crocodile shooting, however, is hard
work. It involves going out by
boat, equipped with gun, torch, and
guide, on a moonless night; in that
area, where everything all around
creeps, crawls, slithers, or writhes,
it is an eerie undertaking.
One flashes the light along the
banks, and the main thing to re-
member is that the green eyes are
buffalo and red eyes are crocodile.
However, crocodiles at Nourlangie
are becoming increasingly scarce.
Naturalists believe it an appalling
thing that they should be shot out.
Other people who think that the
crocodile is a disagreeable reptile
accept this with equanimity. Allan
Stewart finds them good for the
tourist trade, but then he remembers
• hat in the past 12 months they
have eaten five of his horses.
As pointed out earlier, he is an
unusual character. At the camp he
wears a Black Watch tam-o’-shanter
and he retains his old Army bugle.
This he uses to play reveille and
the last post. When the last post
wavers out through the lonely
jungle on a still, warm evening
those red and green eyes must blink
with amazement.
BATMAN


MARION RAYMOND'S COOK BOOK
Much Depends on Dinner
SITTING on the stoep of our house
in Ghana one night, my husband
had a frantic phone call from
Kingsley Martin, the legendary editor
of the “New Statesman.”
“For God’s sake get me out of
here,” cried Martin. “Here” turned out
to be the residency of the District
Commissioner in Ashanti, where Mar-
tin, as a distinguished visitor, had been
put up. “I meet enough stuffed shirts
in London without coming all this way
to meet more,” said Martin, on being
collected and related what had hap-
pened at dinner the previous night.
The host and his guests had sat
around over drinks until 11 p.m., dis-
cussing the problems of Africa, while
Martin, just off the plane, his stomach
groaning, grew steadily more ravenous.
When at last the steward served din-
ner, Martin was into his soup before
the hostess had picked up her spoon.
When a platter of small fillets of fish
arrived, he swept four or five pieces on
to his plate. By the time the platter
reached the District Commissioner there
was none left, and he had to pretend
that he didn’t care much for fish, any-
how. While Kingsley bent his red face
over his plate.
The rather tenuous moral is that is
it essential to over-eater somewhat for
a dinner party, and also absolutely fatal
to sit around drinking too long and too
much before sitting down?
Man, it has been said, is a dining
animal. Inferior creatures eat and drink,
but only man dines. Executed with skill
and order, a dinner party can grace
with distinction one of the more mat-
erial conditions of human existence
i.e., the need, at regular intervals, to
consume large quantities of protein,
carbohydrates, fats, etc.
Success at arranging dinner parties
does not, in my opinion, depend upon
the amount of money you are able to
spend, but upon the amount of thought
you are prepared to devote to it. Im-
promptu affairs, although sometimes
wildly successful, have the odds against
them from the start. Dreary people
who have nothing to say do more to
ruin a dinner than poor food.
Seating is another vitally important
factor. Unless forced to by circum-
stance, I do not believe that anyone
can be happy balancing a plate on
their knees. So the all-too-familiar buffet
should be avoided.
The main course is something I
won’t talk about here, because every-
one is convinced they know how to
prepare it. Where dinners are con-
cerned, I go along with Sir Thomas
Beecham, who said that he didn’t care
what the orchestra did in the middle,
as long as it started together and
finished together.
In this I don’t mean the timing—
but I do think that most people pay
far too little attention to the way a
meal begins, and the way it ends. They
put their all into the main event, and
regard the first course merely as a
hurdle to be got over as quickly as
possible.
Canned or packaged soup, for ex-
ample, is unpardonable, unless it has
been so doctored as to be unrecognis-
able.
The first course should in all cases
be considered carefully in the light of
what is to follow. If the main course
is meat, I prefer something like arti-
choke hearts vinaigrette (or asparagus
spears, treated likewise) as an appetiser.
Finely chopped capers in oil and vinegar
make the dressing; let the hearts steep
in it for an hour or so in the refrigerator
before serving.
If the main course is fish, I like to
serve a good home-made pate with hot
toast to start with. If you can’t make
pate, buy a really good one and prepare
it as follows.
First make a small quantity of aspic;
Maggi has one on the market which is
foolproof. But instead of using the
amount of water recommended, use
half water and half white wine, or a
smaller portion of sherry.
Pour a small layer of aspic into the
bottom of a row of coffee cups, one
per guest, and allow to set. Put in a
slice of hard-boiled egg, and slivers of
gherkin, pimentos, olives, or capers.
Cover again with aspic, and allow to
set. (No more than a quarter of an
inch of aspic for either layer.) Fill
the cup with pate, cover with aspic,
and finally set in the refrigerator. When
turned out, the effect is well worth
while.
If you like soup, find a good recipe
and experiment with it until it is
perfect. I have two favorites —fresh
tomato and fresh mushroom.
The tomato soup is made by sim-
mering a large chopped onion in butter,
with a couple of cloves of garlic, until
transparent. And 1J or 21b. of ripe
tomatoes, roughly chopped, pepper-
corns, a bay-leaf, 1 teaspoon of sugar,
and one of salt.
Put the saucepan lid on firmly and
simmer for 10 minutes. Add two cups
of water and simmer again for 10
minutes. Strain and mash the whole
lot through a sieve, and leave until
required. Ten minutes before serving,
bring to the boil, then turn down the
heat and slowly stir in a carton of sour
cream. Do not allow to boil, but bring
it straight to the table. (And whatever
you serve after that won’t matter!)
If you like a clear soup, heat two
tablespoons of butter in a saucepan,
add 3 chopped shallots and simmer
briefly. Put in ljlb. of finely chopped
mushrooms and cook for 5 minutes.
Add 6 cups of rich chicken broth and
simmer for 30 minutes, uncovered.
Strain through a coarse sieve (perhaps
a vegetable colander), so that some
specks of mushroom get through.
Season to taste, add one teaspoon of
lemon juice, and serve garnished with
a lemon slice. This is delicious, and
leaves plenty of room for what’s to
follow.
Desserts are a personal choice. The
older I get the less I appreciate sticky
puds. If we have a rich kind of meal
I like to serve fruit in the Japanese
style.
I buy a selection of expensive fruit
(because you don’t need much), such
as strawberries, grapes, Cape goose-
berries, mangoes, persimmons, nec-
tarines—whatever is available. One
slice of each fruit, neatly peeled and
nicely shaped, is arranged on a plate,
with a squeeze of lemon juice, a dust-
ing of sugar, and a leaf for decoration.
Eaten with fingers, it provides a refresh-
ing end to a meal (there’s always cheese
for the insatiable eaters).
And it provides the right setting for
that most important part of dinner
the well-lubricated talk that should
keep your guests at the table until long
past midnight.
Unless it’s dinner for two, and you
have other ideas. As Byron observed:
I will not dwell upon ragouts or roasts
Albeit all human history attests
That happiness for man the hungry
sinner!
Since Eve ate apples, much depends
on dinner.


For a clean slate
Well within time limits prescribed by law, a widow with adequate probate protection
wipes her slate clean of death duties, legal charges and outstanding household
accounts. Being certain of ready cash at the right time, she avoids loss of assets
through forced sales. It is a tragedy to see an asset, built up on a lifetime of work,
sacrificed simply through lack of foresight. Without careful planning through
A.M.P.’s “Blue Chip” Probate Insurance Plan, your estate may be in jeopardy. Call
in an A.M.P. man for an A.M.P. Family Security Check-up. This provides an auto-
matic review of your probate protection plan, free and without obligation.
ACCEPT
NOTHING LESS
THAN
'BLUE CHIP 1 '
PROTECTION
arm
p>. M jo
CVT
Z'p in£s
r.T|fj
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: Sydney Cove
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding $1,600 million which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
Y 5538


We told him Cyclone
Security Fencing would help
protect his plant and premises
from thieves and vandals. He said
he had no problems. We told him
he may have one day.
He said he’d wait and see.
Why take a chance?
Be on the safe side, insist on
Cuclone Security Fencing
made better, erected better, stays strongest longest’
CYCLONE K-M PRODUCTS PTY. LIMITED
Ring for immediate service: Melbourne, 410271; Sydney, 6444411; Adelaide, 45026;
Perth, 233171; Brisbane, 591051; Townsville, 92171; Launceston, 42481.
SFI64ON


Painful
Hemorrhoids
It strikes 7 out of every 10 people in
all walks of life. Yet many otherwise
intelligent people know little of its dan-
gers. Piles (hemorrhoids) are aggra-
vated by many factors—including
over-exertion and unsuitable diet.
Neglect—and reliance on superficial
relief —invites serious medical conse-
quences. Eight years’ Swiss research
developed Varemoid Tablets —now
regarded by overseas specialists as the
leading anti-inflammatory treatment
for piles. Remarkable improvement is
being achieved —even with sufferers
of over 20 years. A week’s course
will convince you.
Ask your family chemist for Varemoid.
★ Simple and dignified treatment.
★ Two tablets with meals.
Write for free, informative booklet to SERA
Pty. Ltd., Dept. 4D, P.O. Box 241, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.
Varemoid tablets
The oral treatment for HEMORRHOIDS
WANTED
COMPANIES
WITH
ACCUMULATED
PROFIT
Trading or
non-trading
Immediate
cash settlement
can he arranged
L
LEVART
Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE
12th Floor, 406 Lonsdale St., 601818
SYDNEY 20th Floor, 68 Pitt st„ 27 4145
ADELAIDE 51 Elizabeth St., 51 5941
Wanted, Mistress Mathematics to Form
IV and/or Junior Science to Form 111.
Apply in writing.
HEADMISTRESS
Catholic Girls' High School
Griffith, CANBERRA.
Fast Books Lately
By RAY TAYLOR
HOW FAST CAN YOU READ?
A WELL - KNOWN PUB-
LISHER REPORTS THAT
THERE IS A SIMPLE TECH-
NIQUE OF RAPID READING
WHICH ENABLES YOU TO AT
LEAST DOUBLE YOUR READING
SPEED SENTENCES AT A
GLANCE ENTIRE PAGES IN
SECONDS . . . ETC. . . .” FROM AN
AD IN THE “NEW STATESMAN.”
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
This is Norman Mayler coming to you
from the Great Public Library at Mar-
rickville, where tonight marks an
epoch in Speed Reading History the
contest for the Dean Swift Cup
between Skipper McGee and Harry
the Browser.
Conditions are set fair for the
event, although there’s a slight brce/e
coming from the
Political Section
and Philosophy
looks a bit menac-
ing—but the two
men and a dog
crowded in here are
all agog and you
can feel the mount-
ing excitement. Earlier tod.i\ they
saw some excitement when in the pre-
liminary rounds one of the young
amateurs in the flyleaf section had to
retire with a touch of the Brontes, but
all is well now. Now, for a glossary on
one of the competitors, we cross to an
interview with the great Skipper
McGee.
“You’ve been having a tough time
lately, Skipper.”
“Yer. That was the ‘Khama Sutra.’
A very difficult course that on account
of the sticky patches you find
yourself going over and over the same
passages . . . Still, almost worth lousing
up my average, it was . . .”
“Still, you feel in form today, Skip-
per?”
“Oh, my oath, yes. I did ‘War and
Peace’ in 2 minutes 53 seconds the
other day. Mind you, I was fed sus-
tenance intravenously through Nap-
oleon’s retreat, but I never actually
faltered—”
“How do you manage to keep in
training?”
“Well, that presents a problem. I
find that all the daily newspapers in
the world do not supply enough bulk.
I’m through them like a dose of the
Dead Sea Scrolls.
“So lately I’ve been warming up on
the Sydney telephone directory. I find
from A.A.8.8.5. Carrying Co. to
Zilurnik O. my time was just under the
pips.”
“Really. What kept you so long,
Skipper?”
“Couple of wrong numbers and a
slight case of double vision in the
Macs.”
“Thank you, Skipper McGee.” Well,
the contestants are all set now, ladies
and gentlemen, for this gruelling
struggle approximately half a mile
of “Das Kapital” both contestants
are crouched over the Foreword Post
the Chief Librarian is saying . . .
“On your Marx ...” And he’s fired
his pistol (a James Jones) and the great
race has started. Nothing in it so far.
Neck to neck over the first page
. . . heads nodding and swaying with
wonderful rhythm Man and Book
united in a perfectly balanced whole
. . . End of the first chapter and there’s
nothing in it at all . . .
You may be able to hear the fran-
tic, near hysterical silence of the
crowd here as these two champions
strive to give of their uppermost . . .
and still there’s nothing to choose . . .
but wait . . . what is this . . .? Harry the
Browser has faltered
badly quite
thrown out of his
rhythm. What is
it? Good God —■
sorry about that
but some unsport-
ing swine has turned
the corner of a page
down and it’s tripped poor Harry badly.
Tough luck, but, of course, it’s all in
the read—nothing can be done about
it now. Skipper is flashing through
the appendix now and there’s literally
no holding him . . . Yes, yes . . . it’s
first past the Finishing Proust . . .
Skipper McGee . . .
Well, there’s no chance of an over-
due fine in that race I would say.
The Chief Librarian is handing Skipper
the Cup and his prize Gibbon’s
“Decline and Fall”—and—“Allow us
to be the first to congratulate you,
Skipper McGee.”
“Well, yes, thanks. It was a great
read and I’m glad . . .”
“Did you enjoy it?”
“Oh, yer. Nice twist at the end, I
thought.”
“Well, what does the future hold for
Skipper McGee now then?”
“Oh, it’ll be the Big One next.”
“You mean . . .?”
“Yer, that’s right. The Four Minute
Bible.”
“Well, good luck to you, Skipper
McGee”—and now, ladies and gentle-
men, that’s all from the Great Public
Library at Marrick—wait, though . . .
what is this? The judges have taken
the prize and the Cup away from
Skipper and they’re handing them
to Harry the Browser . . . Amazing.
What? Oh, yes, apparently there is a
disqualification. It seems that Skipper
McGee is being disqualified because on
Page 1366 he licked his finger to turn
over. “What astonishing bad luck,
Skipper. But why did you do it? Why
did you lick your finger like that?”
“Well, I guess it’s because I just
didn’t have time to read the rules.”


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Stirrings in Sheffield
By FRANK HATHERLEY
AS far as Australian news is con-
cerned I live in the past. My
BULLETIN arrives at the stage
door each week at least six weeks out
of date. Here it is February and I’m
just catching up on December.
Sometimes it’s a bit hard to get very
involved in stale news stories, but this
week one of the articles—“ The Anti-
Star System,” by Charles Higham—has
churned me up considerably. The pic-
ture Mr. Higham paints of the state
of Australian Theatre, and the future
of live theatre in Australia, is depress-
ing in the extreme.
Mr. Higham is a “star gazer.” The
words “star,” “stars,” “starring,” or
“stardom” appear 53 times —53!! Count
’em!! 53!!—in his article. Exercise:
repeat “star” 53 times in quick succes-
sion. Fortunately the word soon loses
its meaning. “Stars” belong to Broad-
way and the West End—and that sort
of theatre is finished. Television is
slowly but surely throttling what
remains of the life out of both venues.
I would give them about 10 more years
in their present form.
QYDNEY IRVING, general manager
for N.S.W. of J. C. Williamson’s, is
quoted in the article. What a sorry
chump he is no wonder Williamson’s
are “missing, feared dead.” “You can’t
have out-of-town tryouts here in the
sense that you can overseas,” he says.
“So the business of writing a play for
a star (flash! flash!) and then testing it
on a provincial audience with the usual
squabbles and rewrites won’t work.”
From the sound of it, Mr. Irving
thinks “squabbles and rewrites” are an
integral part of the glamor of the stage.
Who wants that sort of theatre? Doesn’t
Mr. Irving know this is the system that
produces the hundreds of dreary, boring
production-line “comedies” that pour
out of moribund Broadway every year?
Williamson’s put on “Under the Yum
Yum Tree” with (bing!) Digby Wolfe
and wonders why nobody bothers. The
capital cities don’t want this kind of
television-reject tat.
Next, Mr. Eric Duckworth of the
Phillip Theatre. Over to you, Eric.
“Selling stars is like selling toothpaste.
You have to shout their names from
the rooftops. Unless we change this
we are never going to have an Aus-
tralian theatre.” So the future of
Australian theatre depends on nation-
wide advertising based on toothpaste
Mr. Hatherley is an Australian, at
present with the Sheffield Playhouse on
a trainee director’s scholarship provided
by the British commercial television
company, ABC.
campaigns. Excuse me while I rush
to the roof.
JILL PERRYMAN IS GOOD FOR
YOU!
TRY A GORDON CHATER
TODAY!
LYLE O’HARA BRINGS OUT
LAUGHTER WHILE SHE
SOOTHES YOUR NERVES!
The truth is, of course, that no
matter how winning your leading
player’s personality may be an audi-
ence wants more than that lovable
cheeky grin they have grown to accept
on their telly. Talent is essential. I
suggest that a strong script and a first-
rate production are even more impor-
tant. The audiences here in Sheffield
don’t come every three weeks to the
Playhouse because so-and-so is playing
the lead but because they know they
can expect a good evening’s entertain-
ment.
But the booby prize undoubtedly
goes to Stefan Haag of the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust. The hopes we
all had for the new-born Trust Players
under Hugh Hunt! If the opinions
expressed by Mr. Haag reflect the
present mood of the Trust toward live
theatre, then the sudden disappearance
of the Trust Players is explained. The
Trust committed infanticide.
“Australians don’t want to see them-
selves in an unfavorable light on the
stage,” says Mr. Haag in reply to the
question of why the Trust hadn’t
established a national drama by now.
“Their most secret desire is—what is
the word in English?—flattery.” There
are a few other English words that
come instantly to mind when I think
of Mr. Haag sitting in his office ponti-
ficating about what Australians want to
see and what they don’t.
Flattery, smattery —what about a bit
of effort to encourage audiences to see
good plays well done? Nobody cares
in Sheffield whether we do Coward’s
hymn of praise to the British, “Caval-
cade,” or Osborne’s vitriolic sermon of
hate to the British, “The Entertainer.”
Who cares —so long as it’s vital, excit-
ing, entertaining!
Mr. Haag also declares that Jill
Perryman isn’t a “star” (zip!) yet be-
cause she hasn’t gone “to London
and come back.” That’s certainly a
novel notion.
WHAT has London got to do with
Australian theatre? What has Lon-
don got to do with Sheffield? Absolutely
nothing. The real and thriving theatre
exists for its own community. It serves
and reflects the community to which
it belongs and none other. It seems
just as ridiculous to me to say that Jill
Perryman has to go to London before
she can be an Australian star as it is to
suppose that Sydney should like a play
that Melbourne liked. Or that a play
should tour “the provinces” before
being fit to play a big city.
The main thesis of Mr. Higham’s
article is that theatre will never really
thrive in Australia because of the Aus-
tralian mentality. He says: “Australia
is altogether too democratic and mono-
chrome to allow anything as ‘fascist,’
as ruthlessly stratified, as great theatre.”
Now hold on there a minute. We
can’t run before we’ve even started
to crawl. Let’s not bother about “great
theatre” for a little while yet. Let’s
do a bit of hard-slogging ground work
first to establish a regular theatre-
going public. Maybe this is the trouble.
Maybe Australia wants its own National
Theatre, its central culture establish-
ment, too soon.
Nothing could be more monochrome
than the north of England. The steel-
workers are just as tough as their Wol-
longong counterparts, I suspect. Their
sense of a “fair go” is just as acute.
Their/ democratic institutions just as
hallowed. The Working Men’s Clubs
here are just as full as the League
Clubs and the RSLs. And, of course,
it is just as difficult to persuade them
that live theatre can be vigorous, mas-
culine, and more entertaining than a
Hollywood spy film at the local cinema,
or a Hollywood spy film on the box.
Would Joe Blow, of either Sheffield
or Wollongong, want to see “Robert
and Elizabeth” even with an all-tele-
vision-star cast? Answer: No.
How can we get him along then?
Answer: Make theatregoing no more
worrying for him than a trip to borrow
a book from the local library. At the
Playhouse last July an actor/author
member of the company, Alan Cullen,
devised a documentary based on the
establishment of Sheffield unions in the
19th century. Called “The Stirrings


in Sheffield on Saturday Night,” it was
packed with action, songs, and drama,
and it filled the theatre to overflowing
every night for five weeks. Even though
he had never seen the inside of a
theatre before in his life, Joe Blow
came out of interest, and probably
hasn’t missed a production since, judg-
ing from audience figures.
London managements heard of the
success of “Stirrings” and made offers
for a transfer to the West End. In
declining their lucrative offers, Colin
George, the Playhouse Director, said
that he and the company had no desire
to leave the community to which they
belonged, even for a few months. Shef-
field was their home. “The Stirrings”
had been written for Sheffield, and
Sheffield was where they meant to
stay.
The Victoria Theatre in Stoke-on-
Trent (near the Scottish border) began
its exciting life in an ugly industrial
area in 1962. White-collar workers and
the so-called middle class, the audience
that is supposed to support theatre
almost to the exclusion of all other
groups, just didn’t exist there. So the
Victoria Theatre had to start from
scratch to grow and develop naturally
inside the community, not being able
to impose any standards on a non-exis-
tent audience.
ir fHE Director of Stoke, Peter
Cheeseman, and most of his small
but dedicated company prepared to
settle in Stoke for the rest of their
working lives—for there could be no
talk of divided loyalties, of imitating
the West End, or of touring Yorkshire.
The modern community theatre is
not content with just producing plays.
The Sheffield Playhouse stages Sunday
night readings, lectures, poetry, and
jazz in close co-operation with the
Sheffield University. Its work with
children is regarded as the most pro-
gressive in England.
Theatre Vanguard consists of a group
of Playhouse actors who go out into
the local schools and perform specially
compiled programs for infants, juniors,
and seniors—involving them in both
acting and production and giving them
a first taste of live theatre. Peter
Cheeseman has said: “There is no
point in putting on plays that the
actors and the director don’t enjoy
doing, just because they think that
people might like them. The two
enjoyments must coincide, otherwise the
result is going to be a tired and
tawdry experience.”
The face of theatre in Britain has
completely changed in the past five
years. It had to, or die. Fortunately,
Mr. Higham’s article is only one side
of the Australian theatre scene, the
dead side. The other side, which I’ve
also learnt by reading the pages of my
out-of-date BULLETINS, is repre-
sented, in Sydney at least, by the
Community Theatre, the dear old In-
dependent, the Ensemble, the Old
Tote, the Jane Street, and the Q
Theatre. All power to them!
ON FILM
Von Sternberg: Festival Visitor
THE Sydney Film Festival has just
announced that Josef von Stern-
berg, director of “The Blue
Angel” and creator of Dietrich, will be
the guest-of-honor at this year’s festival
in May and June. I am especially
pleased about this, as I was responsible
for , arranging for David Stratton,
director of the festival, to make the
necessary contacts in Hollywood
through which he could talk to Von
Sternberg and make the invitation. It
will be fascinating to see how the
director, notoriously difficult to inter-
view, responds to people like Andrea,
Ron Saw, and Denis O’Brien. One
feels he will tax their powers as far
as they have ever been taxed.
Now in his early seventies, Von
Sternberg has been put firmly on the
shelf by Hollywood and has fled to
that refuge of its rejected talents: the
lecture podium at UCLA, where he
has spoken on the history of film and
on his own work, much of which he
had forgotten until a close friend of
mine in Hollywood, owner of the
largest private collection of films in
America, refreshed his memory
with some screenings. “The
old man sat there in front of
his picture ‘The Last Com-
mand’ and was in agony of
suspense about how the plot
came out,” the collector told
me.
A few miles away from Von
Sternberg, in the cool green
oasis of the San Fernando
Valley, the late Erich Pommei
lived with his children and
grandchildren, a pathetically
frail figure in a wheelchair whose eyes
still glittered with wit and intelligence.
Pomrrier was producer of “The Blue
Angel” and head of UFA, the great
German film studio where Von, Stern-
berg worked, for more than a decade.
I had an unforgettable day at his house,
watching some films the collector and
I had brought with us. These—“ Ci-
nderella” and “The Chronicle of the
Grey House” among them—had been
made by Pommer almost 40 years
earlier.
It was deeply moving to see him
nod his head in recognition as the
images flickered on the walls of the
nursery, watched with rapture by his
blue jeaned and suntanned American
grandchildren to whom the names UFA
and Ludwig Berger, director of “Cin-
derella,” meant absolutely nothing.
Only two days before, I had visited
Von Sternberg himself, and he had
spoken warmly of Pommer, his great
colleague; only an enthusiast for the
cinema could know just how much
these two meetings meant to me.
Von Sternberg I reached through
Herbert Luft, critic and associate film
producer, head of the Hollywood
Foreign Press Association, and an old
friend. The great director’s house was
modest; far more modest than
Von Sternberg
Pommer’s; a far cry from the famous
fortress he once sold to the dynamic
author Ayn Rand. In his living-room,
typically pale-colored in the Californian
style, he sat against an impressionistic
background of Eastern figures, fronds,
sprays of cool green leaves, and
exquisite carved screens, like an abstract
of one of his own images. Beyond the
windows behind him was a Hollywood
cluster of pink roofs, a bristle of tele-
vision aerials, and the dry, brown,
scimitar leaves of palms.
He was coolly detached, almost asleep
apparently, with hooded watching eyes,
a tight mouth, and drooping moustaches.
Here was the hurt pride of the fallen
idol whose word in Hollywood was once
law.
He led us down to a basement study,
pale cream and brown, filled with
books, figures, and ikons. He sat pro-
fessorially behind a desk, answering
each question after one of those very
long pauses which Gurdjieff was said to-
frighten his disciples with. One saw the
cold will that had made Dietrich out
of a frumpish minor stage actress, that
had created artificial but
intoxicating versions of
Morocco, Shanghai, and
Peiping.
He talked about his films
with the weary reluctance of
someone who has been
barraged by too many
students’ questions. He men-
tioned how Ernst Lubitsch,
head of production at Para-
mount in the ’thirties, had
accused him of using extrava-
gant crowd scenes in his film
“The Scarlet Empress.” “But you see—”
a faint flicker of irony disturbed the
moonlike stillness of the face—“l had
used those crowd scenes from
own silent film, ‘The Patriot.’ He was
the one who was extravagant.”
Were his films pre-planned? “No.
Just the vague idea of the way things
would turn out. Ideas were tossed
around when we came to the sound-
stage. It takes one and a half hours
to show a picture. It should only take
one and a half hours to make. I did
the sculptures for my pictures, the
paintings. I designed the train settings
for ‘Shanghai Express.’ After the rail-
way people in America saw my picture,
American trains showed a great
improvement,” he said with an
egocentric touch in the voice that was,
in its way, magnificent. I didn’t dare
mention the famous sculptures, the
great art director Hans Dreier, whose
work on Von Sternberg’s films has been
acclaimed in the histories ...
Before I left, Von Sternberg signed
his autobiography, “Fun in a Chinese
Laundry” (just published now in Aus-
tralia), “with affection, Josef von Stern-
berg.” Then, with a smile of almost
imperceptible distaste, he showed me
out.
CHARLES HIGHAM


ART
Flights of Fancy
Royal Aeronautical Society Competi-
tion: Qantas, Sydney.
Esso Competition: Government Offices,
Perth.
AT Qantas gallery are 28 works of
the 60 entered in the $1500 com-
petition to celebrate the centenary
of the Royal Aeronautical Society; they
were to be non-abstract, but not neces-
sarily representational, depictions of
life up there, and the best, like those
of the winner, Ben Hall, found a skilful
passage between those two storm-
fraught cumulus clouds.
It is rare for the aeroplane to leave
the comic papers and the commercial
magazines for the rarefied air of high
art; the natural place for the plane
seems to have been “Chums,” “The
Champion,” and “The Modern Boy”
and until recently the only real artists
to have been stirred by aerial adven-
ture were Roger de La Fresnaye with
his La Conquete d’Air of 1913 in bright,
flat-patterned cubism, and Robert De-
launay whose Homage to Bleriot of
1914, which had two planes and a
propeller lost in rapturous discs of
lively color, came five years after
Bleriot had flown the Channel.
This delay in the artistic use of forms
that have been around for some time
supports Marshall McLuhan’s view that
new art styles simply convey the old
message and material; after being
aesthetically grounded for so long the
plane has winged its way back into art
through Pop, but the planes depicted
by contemporary artists of note are
vintage or near-vintage. Lichtenstein
blows up planes from comic books of
20 years ago to resemble Leger’s tough
forms; Peter Blake, a more whimsical
English Popster, fluttered World War
I planes across the front page of 1966
“Times Literary Supplement,” and it
is the epics of German air aces of 1915-
18 that engage Melbourne’s Gareth
Sansom.
Only in one case in the present show
do art and industrial design fly
parallel; Col Jordan’s hard-edged,
striped triangle looks like a delta wing;
others who try to illustrate the modern
plane fall into unimaginative depictions
or flat, unethereal, mural manipula-
tions. John Firth-Smith enlivens a vast
sky with collages of aircraft and several
plastic planes, bowing both to nostalgia
and Delaunay with his title of Homage
to the Tiger Moth, a work equal to
the winning Epics of Flight where Ben
Hall has a spidery plane disintegrating
into vaporous clouds, owing much to
Larry Rivers whose aerial touch, rococo
gaiety and tongue-in-cheek irony is
influencing many. (As Hal Missingham,
co-judge with W. E. Pidgeon, put it in
his opening address with a Warhol-like
insouciance: “He cheated a bit, but
never mind, he got the lolly.”)
Many may have found the subject
restrictive, but it is clear that a number
re-examined 20th-century art; in
Bonsoir, Monsieur Bleriot J. Kirk
tossed a tiny plane in flowing abstract
expressionist clouds; Judith Pins
launched planes through a surrealistic
atmosphere and Annois’ DC3 became
a great moth as it imitated the New
Guinea foliage; but others avoided the
issue, Feuerring showing a flighty lady
losing her sense of gravity and Orban
a dark island in the dark sea without
a landing strip in sight.
It should have proved a more stimu-
lating venture; certainly the Esso com-
petition at the Perth Festival did. Fifty-
five works by diploma students of all
States except Queensland competed for
two equal prizes of $250 won by Hans
Arkveld, of Perth, with wild dancing
figures and stencils a la Rivers, and by
John Neeson, of Melbourne, with a
sketchy Figure-Scape, slightly indebted
to Whiteley whose influence in Mel-
bourne and Perth looks like a minor
epidemic.
The aim was not to show what was
being taught but to let students see
how their fellows coped with problems:
Adelaide, for example, tends to tidy
up the world into hard-edge package-
deals. Overall, the assurance accom-
panied by thoughtful experiment was
surprising. Five years ago a student
who exhibited publicly would have been
accused of impetuous egoism, but today
most seem to be able to find their way
through the turbulence of modern art
with their own built-in radar; certainly,
their teachers are less like Joves direct-
ing destiny from the clouds and more
like guides on the firm ground.
As the show tours Australia, it should
be clear to viewers that the surge of
talent of the late ’fifties and early
’sixties is undiminished.
ELWYN LYNN
TELEVISION
Boots and All
The Mavis Bramston Show. ATN,
Channel 7.
IF there is a record, outside Mao-
land, for leaping backwards two
years, the new “Mavis Bramston
Show” surpassed it at its premiere last
week. Anyone who has longed for the
old “Bramston” ways will be heartened
to know that ugly days are here again,
with everything but the pie, tomato
sauce, and Gordon Chater. Miss Carol
Raye is back. Barry Creyton, June
Salter, Noeline Brown, and other
talented cast members have left. Ron
Fraser has remained to take off Harold
Holt, Barbara Angell is in the ensemble,
and someone named Peter Reeves has
flown in from England and has my
sympathy, although not much.
In the opening show there was one
filmed sequence in the more recent
“Mavis Bramston” spirit. Australia, as
I understood it, had become a world
centre for grand welcomes to Premiers
and potentates from everywhere, and
the gang were out in force to hooray
a couple from Heard Island. It was
funny and well done, if a bit cruel
(and stale) in its digs at Arthur Calwell.
Then there was a news item approach
to a sketch about summer uniforms for
priests, which dragged on to eventu-
ally reveal that a robed and officious
bishop was wearing only his underpants
below the desk. Ha, ha. The finale
of the show burst on to the small
screen with the kind of tasteless humor
in which the original show specialised.
A “Labor Party Revival” was lam-
pooned as a religious revival meeting,
with Peter Reeves reading from “the
good book of ALP scriptures” and
intoning mock hymns.
The original “Mavis” was constantly
over the border of the average person’s
good taste, and its religious jokes were
too close to blasphemy even for an
irreligious like me to stomach. It is
not humorous to try to be funny at the
expense of average people’s deeper
convictions. Rather it is the charac-
teristic of a hoodlum child. If using
the boot is funny, then “Mavis” in this-
mood is side-splitting.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
Never a Dull
Moment
The Devil’s Advocate. Morris West. St.
Martin’s, Melbourne.
IT is common knowledge that while
highbrow Patrick White struggles
with his anguish at Sarsaparilla for
little more than the basic wage, no-
brow Morris West lounges in his New
York, Sydney, or Roman penthouses
murmuring best-sellers into a lapis
lazuli dictaphone. So, obedient to the
dictates of literary criticism and con-
science, I’ve devoured every word of
White’s while shunning those of West’s.
Thus I’ve no idea how faithful Dore
Schary’s dramatisation is to the original
novel, but as a play it has as many
characters and conflicts as I’ve seen
crammed into three acts.
Monsignor Meredith is dying of
cancer and fears he will not die well.
He believes himself to be spiritually
null and void; he is certainly a lonely
and uncommunicative man. His Cardi-
nal sends him from the rarefied atmos-
phere of the Vatican into the elemental
landscape of Calabria, to investigate
the life of a man being considered for
beatification. In his role as Devil’s
Advocate, he becomes deeply involved
in the lives of those who knew Giacomo
Nerone, and in confirming that the man
might indeed be a Saint, he discovers
his own humanity.
Meredith is one of the two charac-
terisations in the play that comes near
to working. We believe in his intelli-
gence and his pain. The other is Doctor
Meyer, a Jewish humanist, who per-
suades Nerone’s intimates to confide
in the dying man. He is just contradic-
tory enough to be plausible. But the
others the noble Nerone, his devoted
mistress, a neurotic Countess, and a


capaHity
... ...
■
ranges
far and wide
The potential of AWA capability may be
measured by its 50-years-long experience
in radio, its broad resources through
world-wide affiliations and its depth of
technical and engineering ability.
Australian owned, Australian managed
and Australian staffed, AWA serves
everyone, every day.
So, too, with Export—in open competition
with the world’s greatest radio
communication equipment makers—
AWA has met the standards demanded—
television transmitters in Singapore,
tele-communication installations in
India, police patrol radio-telephones in
Hong Kong, broadcasting stations in
Pakistan—lndia—Thailand—Ceylon,
tele-communication stations in Egypt—
Pakistan—Singapore—South Africa,
test equipment in India—Libya—two-way
radio telephones in South Africa—
Philippines—Hong Kong—East Africa—
Mauritius—amplifying systems in
Malaysia.
Manufacturers of
television and broad-
casting equipment;
communication trans-
mitters and receivers;
radio aids to navigation:
audio amplifying
systems: electronic
components: testing
instruments: telephones:
programme recording:
television and broad-
cast receivers: data
transmission systems
and training in radio
technology.
❖
A measure of AWA
capability is the supply
and operation of a
comprehensive radio
service aboard the
54,000-ton bulk carrier
“Darling River," latest
addition to the
Australian National Line
fleet . . . radio
communication
transmitters and
receivers, emergency
radio equipment, radio
aids to navigation,
world-wide radio-
telephone, talk-back
amplifier, aerials for
traffic and for television
entertainment.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
AC/4
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Head Office: A7 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne, Wellington (N.Z.), London.


a Jet a day
to New York!
■■■
m ■> -■>m
■■
if**
v 5
i***
From March 31 Qantas, with 8.0.A.C., gives you a jet a
day direct to New York* via Honolulu and San Francisco.
Qantas, in association with Air New Zealand and 8.0.A.C.,
offers 14 flights weekly to the U.S.A. —12 to San Francisco
and 2 to Los Angeles while 7 flights continue on through
San Francisco to New York and London.
Choose the time of day that suits you best to fly to the
U.S.A.—Ask your Travel Agent about the availability
of the special $675 Qantas Economy Class Excursion Fare*
that can save you $225 on economy class round-trips
to U.S. West Coast destinations.
* Subject to Government approval.
Excursion Fares apply from Sydney and Brisbane.
QAAITAS
DIKE OFF W!
TAKE OFF TO YOUR TRAVEL AGENT TODAY!
QANTAS, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A., Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney, 'phone 2-0369;
Canberra, 4-4381; Melbourne, 63-0151; Brisbane, 31-2141; Adelaide, 51-5961; Perth, 23-1564/5/6; Hobart, 2-7411; Darwin, 3350/1.


BULLETIN
RECORDS
present the
astonishing
sound of
WILL
RUSHTON
fci a
The 33£ rpm Long Ploy
Microgroove-Monaural
recorded live during his TV series
FROM RUSHTON
WITH LOVE
ALSO FEATURING ARLENE DORGAN
now available for only $4 post free.
Channel 9 viewers in Sydney and Mel-
bourne recently enjoyed six inspired half-
hour programs entitled "From Rushton With
Love." This, the third BULLETIN record,
includes 11 songs from the TV series.
Send $4 (cheque or postal note, hot
cash, please) to "Bulletin Records,"
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together
with the coupon and address label
below.
order BULLETIN RECORD
FORM Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price $4 a
copy (post free). I enclose cheque/
postal note.
Name of Sender
Address
State
It more than one record is ordered,
attach list giving full name, address,
State, and if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
RECORD
RECORD ONLY
PAID
POSTAGE
SYDNEY
Name. .
Address
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
homosexual painter are as over-
simplified and overstated as Punch
and Judy puppets.
Most of the scenes are very short and
to describe them there ought to be a
better word than dramatic. Nerone
works miracles, is murdered. The
Countess is a nymphomaniac, then a
demure convert. The homosexual
(whom West views with almost quaint
hostility) behaves with great cynicism
and then romantically suicides. There’s
just never a dull moment, and a few
here and there would have been grate-
fully acknowledged.
Given all these performances to ac-
commodate in limited time and space
must have required a ringmaster rather
than a producer, and Irene Mitchell
coped quite, well. The play called for
six settings to be accommodated on St.
Martin’s smallish stage, and Paul Kath-
ner managed. Michael Duffield was
very good, indeed, as the Monsignor,
Joseph James’ Doctor was competent,
and David Turnbull had the sense to
underplay Nerone. Marcella Burgoyne
and Paul Eddy played the Countess and
homosexual in the hyperbolic style in
which they were written.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Mighty Task
King Lear. Shakespeare. Genesian,
Sydney.
Margaret rieneck’s careful
production of “King Lear” has
the characteristic strengths and
weaknesses of a good amateur produc-
tion. One great virtue is that the lines
are spoken clearly and intelligently. The
cast is uneven in ability and experience
and only the stronger members have
mastered the art of speaking Shakes-
pearian verse.
Marcel Wattel has a fine presence as
Lear: a handsome old man, silver of
hair and beard, kingly in bearing and
not decrepit. But it is a mighty task
to play King Lear in the 19th century
critics like Lamb and Bradley con-
sidered the play unactable and Mr.
Wattel does not command the cyclonic
forces of passion necessary to make
a great Lear. Presumably he will, in
time, overcome the impediment of an
incomplete mastery of the lines, which
clogged his performance when I saw
it.
Douglas Hedge’s Fool would grace
any production of “King Lear.” Here
is a Fool as nimble and graceful as
any, who dominates the scene by his
alert stillness rather than by busy
tricks.
Marlene Horsell’s Cordelia combines
dignity, grace, and feeling in an attrac-
tive performance. Terence Madden is
good as a loyal and sturdy Kent, but
I was a little worried by his Ancient
British RAF moustache. Peter Car-
roll gives a sensitive performance as
Edgar, while Coralie Campbell’s pre-
cise and icy tones give Goneril a sharp
cutting edge.
In regard to the costumes, in which
Margaret Rieneck has tried to repro-
duce something of Ancient Britain,
Granville Barker declared that “archae-
ological accuracy profits nothing.” One
can see what he means, for in this
production, while the simpler costumes
Lear’s, Goneril’s, Cordelia’s are
colorful and effective, some of the
others are rather overloaded with
archaeology.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
FILMS
Outsiders
A Thousand Clowns. Director, Fred
Coe.
A THOUSAND Clowns” would
do very well to demonstrate to
a student the best and worst
features of the filmed stage play. On
the credit side, we’re seeing a likable,
funny, and touching play, presented
by a first-class cast. But as a motion
picture it’s pretty much of a botch.
Director Fred Coe can’t decide how
much adaptation a play can stand. Is he
to translate it completely into cine-
matic terms, as Richard Lester did
with “The Knack”? Or will he settle
for a filmed record of a theatrical
performance, as in Olivier’s “Othello”?
lU-advisedly, he has tried to do both.
Sometimes we get the full cinema treat-
ment effective and charming in the
montage of the lovers cycling round
New York, thoroughly irritating and
amateurish in the long opening con-
versation between uncle and nephew.
At other times the director settles
down cosily with his camera in the
one-room apartment and just lets his
actors gab.
But one can forgive a good many
faults for the unsentimental warmth
of the script, the sharp and sometimes
witty dialogue, the offhand expertise
of the acting.
It’s the story of a TV scriptwriter
who has walked out of a good job on
the “Chuckles The Chipmunk Show”
in favor of enjoying and savoring life.
All very well, but it doesn’t pay the
rent and it causes awkward questions
in the Child Welfare Bureau as to the
environment provided for his adopted
nephew.
As played by Jason Robards, the
hero is a persuasive fellow, but the
playwright makes it clear that his
lovable eccentricity is degenerating into
shiftlessness - a fact sadly obvious to
his nephew, his affectionate but exas-
perated brother, and the pretty welfare
officer who falls in love with him.
Barbara Harris overcomes initial
staginess to become a most attractive
heroine; Martin Balsam (who won a
deserved Oscar) and the rest of the
cast do splendidly by a script which
always recognises a man’s dignity while
admitting his enormous capacity to
make a booby of himself.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


in
ii in«ln
t n ii i n i
ii!
i in
mt
«i
im*i«
mi
i in
a
mill m i is
i m inn i
.
BA
mu
IHIt«
nis i h 11
«W IS
#3
IHpp ■ I IB |
IPpn i (■ i
t
■H I KB I
«#}*»>
mi hi
ibklirtß
mmn
tmm
i ii * mk
EriiP l
ANNOUNCING...
Australia’s most
Modern Computer
Training Centre
Since 1897 the Hemingway Robertson organization has been a leader in
business education. Now, as a further service to Australian commerce and industry,
the Hemingway Robertson Computer Training Centre has been established in Sydney.
This centre utilizes the most modern equipment available in Australia and employs
only the most experienced and qualified instructional staff.
Part-time and full-time instruction in programming, based on the 1.8. M. 360 system,
commenced on January 9, 1967. Key punching classes started on the same date,
using 1.8. M., 1.C.T., and G.E. equipment.
Programmers are using the latest 1.8. M. 360/20 computer, together with full peripheral
equipment. In addition, programming courses are being prepared for I.C.T. and G.E.
computer systems these will be available later in 1967.
Interested company executives are invited to write, call or
telephone for full details of any of the following courses:
• An introduction to Digital Computers basic prin-
ciples and concepts.
• 1.8. M. 360/20 Assembler Programming Language.
• 1.8. M. 360/20 1.0.C.5. and Operating Systems.
• 1.8. M. System 360 Assembler Programming Language.
• 1.8. M. 360 Systems 1.0.C.5. and Operating Systems.
• Cobol Programming Language.
• 1.8. M. Report Program Generator (R.P.G.) Program-
ming System.
• An introduction to Systems Design and Analysis.
• 360 System Series Commercial Programmers Course.
• 360/20 Commercial Programmers Course.
HEMINGWAY ROBERTSON
COMPUTER TRAINING CENTRE
10th Floor, 189 Kent St., Sydney. Tel. 272785
(Next door to 1.8. M.)
HRI
=a
Managing Director: R. W. ROBERTSON, B.Com. (Melb.), F.C.1.5., F.A.S.A., F.1.8.A.
Manager: C. GARDINER, Dip.Mech. E„ A.1.8.A., A.I.C.S.
Chief Instructor: A. THOMPSON, B.E. (Elec) Hons., Dip. Rad. E„ A.S.T.C.
CT4


BOOKS
The Zetterling Pranks
By JOHN BAXTER
Night Games. Mai Zetterling. Andre
Deutsch. $3.15.
Wide Sargasso Sea. Jean Rhys. Con-
stable. $2.65.
MAI ZETTERLING’S book has
enough madness and decay in it
to satisfy anybody. Most people
will be familiar with its history. Before
publication, the novel was filmed in
Sweden with Miss Zetterling as
director. At the Venice Film Festival,
descriptive pamphlets were seized and
screenings restricted to “bona fide”
critics. Most found it weird but worth-
less, a few hailed it as a masterpiece.
The best reaction came from Shirley
Temple, who severed her connection
with the San Francisco Film Festival
when it decided to screen the film.
The film’s lurid publicity has tended,
unfortunately, to obscure the merits of
what is a remarkably powerful and
promising first novel, a notable addi-
tion to the sub-group of psycho-
analytical fiction. Whether or not the
story of a man, his sexual life stunted
by association with an evil and per-
verted mother, who struggles to wipe
out his past by revisiting his old home
and reliving the evils of his youth,
should or should not have been told, it
has here been written in the only style
possible.
For most of its length “Night
Games” is written on the edge of
hysteria. The epigraph, a breakfast
menu (surely too apposite to be real)
from a 1903 book on Venetian cuisine,
in which such delicacies as crushed
crabs in sauce tartare, raw ham, cutlets,
grated white truffles, and champagne
are recommended as basic morning
fare, sets the tone of decadent
prodigality that pervades the story. The
man’s journey back to the old mansion,
his new wife curled up on the car seat
beside him, is a hegira to the past,
haunted by images of his dead mother
—as sphinx, temple whore, prowling
cat. Back in the house, moving among
the decaying artifacts of his childhood,
he searches for escape, a means
whereby he can be both a man and
that which he wants most to become, an
imitation of his mother.
The climax to his search is both
grisly and moving. Penetrating his
mother’s private chamber, he is intoxi-
cated by her perfumes and the asso-
ciations that cling to the abandoned
room. Stripping, he douses himself
in perfume and, in a frantic attempt
to become as much like her as possible,
shaves off his body hair with such a
lack of skill that in the end it is less
cleansing than flagellation. Only the
finale, where, after a culminating orgy,
he destroys the house and all its asso-
ciations, can match this scene for
originality and power.
“I believe,” Miss Zetterling has said,
“you can come to a positive view of
things by passing through innumerable
negative views.” She is not the first to
realise this, Strindberg having worked
the same area of the Swedish psyche
often enough before, and with greater
insight. But few recent writers have
done so with quite so much flair as the
author of “Night Games,” and with
such pointed sexual detail.
The name of Jean Rhys crops up
periodically in literary chronicles of the
’thirties, but the fact that her handful
of earlier works is long out of print
has meant her reputation’s total eclipse.
Francis Wyndham in his handy intro-
duction outlines, as well as her career,
the circumstances in which she was
“rediscovered” in retirement in England
and this new novel, her first in nearly
thirty years, coaxed after much revision
and rewriting into its present published
form.
The character of Edward Rochester’s
mad wife in “Jane Eyre” is one that
intrigues almost everybody. Enough is
told about her background, and enough
can be deduced from evidence such as
the daughter’s rather nervous ebullience
to make one wonder about the nature of
a woman who could beguile Rochester
and then wreck his life. Basing her
account on her own life in the West
Indies, Jean Rhys has “reconstructed”
the biography of Bertha Antoinette
Cosway from early childhood to her
Mai Zenerling
death in the fire that destroys Thorn-
field Hall.
The narrative is fragmentary, shift-
ing viewpoint frequently, and chron-
ology even more often. Key facts the
death of Antoinette’s mother, for in-
stance, which significantly hastens her
mental collapse are left unrevealed
until the end of monologues, so they
illuminate whole chapters in retrospect.
Rochester, Grace Poole, various of the
Cosway family, and interested observers
all have their say, seldom accom-
panied by any indication as to who is
talking. Only a writer completely at
ease with dialogue could carry off such
complex construction, and it is a tribute
to Miss Rhys’ ear that the overall im-
pression is of clarity and movement. If
at the end there is any feeling of dis-
content with “Wide Sargasso Sea” it
must stem from the faded nature of the
imagery and the sketchy background.
She has tried to give us a pressed rose,
pale and scented; what was needed was
something more tropical.
Decline of the West
By EUGENE KAMENKA
The Birds Fall Down. Rebecca West.
Macmillan. $3.85.
“rpHE BIRDS FALL DOWN,” say
B the publishers of this second-
rate attempt to evoke the Slav
soul, “is a novel of classic propor-
tions . . . On a foundation of true
fact and historical experience, Dame
Rebecca has created a massive and
superb novel, wholly compelling and
shot through with those qualities of
universality and truth which are the
hallmark of the great writer.” Old
Russia, we are told, will fade before
our eyes and New Russia will come up
over the horizon.
The main thing wrong with “The
Birds Fall Down” is that Rebecca West
seems to share her publishers’ belief
and has thus been led into a some-
what phony attempt to convert a
competent Georgette Heyer-like
chronicle into an important novel. Much
of the book is perfectly competent
historical romance for the lower middle-
brow: the turn of the century —a Rus-
sian count in exile, unjustly dismissed
from his high post by the Tsar, police
spies and social revolutionaries, a half-
English granddaughter of the count’s as
heroine and a “double agent” who
kills as villain. At the centre of the
plot, a well-constructed and quite
excitingly told story of a meeting on
a train which leads to death and the
unravelling of a mystery.
For color, we have bits of Russian


Orthodox lore (the Holy Ghost, re-
member, proceeded from the Father
but not from the Son), interminable
Russian conversation, two French pro-
fessors of medicine and a nurse-
abortionist, and much talk about God
and the Tsar and the morality of kill-
ing and of opening mail. Though
Dame Rebecca seems to have had
Pleve assassinated a year or two too
early, and to be under the impression
that the names of Kant and Hegel
were constantly on the lips of the
Social Revolutionary terrorist, she has
taken the trouble to check up on
Russian funeral customs, to get her
Russian spellings right, and to remember
that Russian noblemen were class-
conscious.
Unfortunately, Dame Rebecca also
wants to write a novel of ideas. The
main trouble is that she hasn’t any.
Her characters talk uninteresting non-
sense about God and about dialectic.
There is not one passage in the novel
that throws even a ray of illumination
on Russia, Russians, or human beings
in general. The author’s attempt to
ape the great tradition of the Russian
novel by putting moral issues at the
centre of her story is simply a pathetic
parody. The reader, content to ignore
Dame Rebecca’s pretensions, however,
and to put up with a somewhat tedi-
ously Victorian lead-in, will find “The
Birds Fall Down” quite readable and
at times even gripping as a narrative.
Its place on the bookshelf is at the
other end from Dostoevsky and nowhere
near a history of Russia.
Long Weekend
In our settled cul-de-sac, people have gone away
for the long weekend, leaving us all alone
in a green seclusion under the mist and rain.
Behind the leaky leaves and the sodden boughs,
the electric light blows as from underwater.
The night is a stream and the house submerged like a stone.
If this were all we had to look forward to
silence and isolation how would it be for us
who think we are various, free and articulate?
This bold illusion we print on smooth, dry weather
dissolves in the damp. We are dependent now.
It was like this at the start. It may be this at the end.
And I suddenly see you skeletal, having the time
to notice your greying hair, spareness and lines.
It seems that you have become more silent and singular.
With tenderness I observe your pronounced cheekbone
and the frangible bones of your forehead and folded hands.
How enduring we are, how mortal. I kiss your flesh on bone.
MARGARET IRVIN
Conrad in the Orient
By CHARLES OSBORNE
Conrad’s Eastern World. Norman
Sherry. Cambridge University Press.
$7.80.
.. , .
TVT°, one wl “ ■? f a " .interested m
IN the novels of Joseph Conrad can
, , fail to be mtrigued by the life lie
>f d > particularly m his early seafaring
days, and m the relation of fact to
Action” *“» * tOTles - , was ( d "™}S
*<= '“Os that Conrad sailed extensively
in the East in that region centring on
the South China Sea whlch a § enera '
tion or two later was to become the
domain of Somerset Maugham, and
which by now has lost most of the
romance it used to hold for Europeans.
Conrad brought back many strange
tales, and continued to make use of the
Eastern Seas as a background right up
unt y t h e end of his career as a writer,
But until now very little has been
known of the raw material from which
such novels as “Lord Jim,” “Almayer’s
Folly,” and “An Outcast of the
Islands” were created, so Mr. Sherry’s
book is particularly welcome. As a
lecturer in English at the University
of Singapore, he has been ideally situ-
ated to immerse himself in what
remains of the atmosphere of Conrad’s
world. What he has done is to delve
into the relevant records and discover
a great deal about Conrad and the men
with whom he came into close contact,
men who in some cases were direct
models for such characters as “Lord
Jim” and “Almayer.” “Conrad’s East-
ern World” is not only a brilliant piece
of literary detection: the nature of its
subject ensures that it’s also exciting
to read.
Conrad’s experience of the East was
as a merchant seaman, and eventually
as the captain of a trading ship. In
later life he often asserted that he
was incapable of imagining situations
or people, and that the greater part
of his novels was based on fact. This
is not to say, of course, that the novels
are all extensions of his own experience.
He incorporated in his books the experi-
ences of others and also the fruits of
his own wide reading. But it is true
that to a very great extent he drew
upon his memories of various encoun-
ters in the East, and Mr. Sherry has
managed to pinpoint several of them.
His most astonishing feat has been
to identify beyond any reasonable
shadow of doubt the original “Lord
Jim.” The rusty old steamer of
Conrad’s novel, the Patna, was, in
reality, the Jeddah, the subject of a
famous scandal in the 1880 s. After a
collision somewhere at the entrance of
the Red Sea, the captain and officers,
fearing the ship was sinking, deserted
her, leaving nine hundred Muslim
pilgrims to drown. The story is, in
essentials, just as it appears in “Lord
Jim,” and it has been mentioned by
earlier writers on Conrad. But no one
has until now identified the Jeddah’s
first mate, A. P. Williams, with Conrad's
Lord Jim. Mr. Sherry, from all that
he has discovered from Williams’
descendants as well as from official
and unofficial documents, is convinced
that he was Conrad’s inspiration for
the whole of the first part of the novel.
Fortunately, Conrad’s description of
Lord Jim’s background is extremely
detailed, and Mr. Sherry has been able
to establish that it is identical with
that of Williams. In fact, while his
book was being revised for publication,
he received dramatic corroboration of
his theory. A lady who had known
Conrad wrote to say that she had
often talked to the author about “Lord
Jim,” and that Conrad told her he had
seen Williams in Singapore when he
was working as a ship chandler’s clerk,
and had been told the story of the
Jeddah incident.
Some of Mr. Sherry’s other dis-
coveries are hardly less important. His
care for detail leads him into follow-
ing up the most fascinating hints. He
reconstructs the circumstances in which
Conrad took over command of the
Otago in Bangkok: in other words,
he proves that “The Shadow Line” is
exact autobiography.
This important and highly enjoyable
contribution to the literature on Conrad
deserves the warmest of welcomes.


QUADRANT
JANUARYFEBRUARY 1967
Everyone is writing about Australia's in-
volvement in Vietnam except those who
are actually involved. In this issue, Cap-
tain Robert O'Neill, at present serving in
Vietnam with the sth Battalion, writes of
the Task Force's experience with THREE
VILLAGES OF PHUOC TUY. Captain
O'Neill is a Rhodes Scholar, holds an
Oxford doctorate in politics and is the
author of a definitive study of the Ger-
man Army and the Nazi Party.
Other articles: Frank Hardy on Commit-
ment; Richard Neville on Kathmandu;
Frank Knopfelmacher on Henry Mayer
and Communism; Peter King on Geelong
Grammar.
AT ALL BOOKSHOPS
or from
Box 4714, G.P.0., SYDNEY
50c Per Copy $3 Per Annum
BOOKH UNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
"Freedom and Whisky gang
thegither!"
(Robert Burns)
Feel free to insist, at all times, upon
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Erotic Slavery
By R. G. HOWARD
The Diary of a Chambermaid. Octave
Mirbeau. Translated by Douglas
Garman. Elek. $3.85.
“fTIHE Diary of a Chambermaid” is
a minor novel whose chief
interest is that it has been made
into notable films by two great direc-
tors, Jean Renoir and Luis Bunuel.
Indeed the apparent revival of interest
in the novel is almost certainl/ due to
the recent release of Bunuel’s version.
While the Bunuel film departs less from
Mirbeau, both directors freely adapted
the story, re-creating it in their own
image, so that it is scarcely recognis-
able in either case.
The novel depicts a world of un-
remitting evil: “No one has the
slightest concern for anyone else,”
writes Celestine, nominal author of the
diary. “Everybody lives, grows fat,
amuses himself at the expense of some-
one more miserable and hard-up than
himself. The Renoir film, made in
Hollywood in 1946, presents an entirely
different view of life. There where evil
exists it is something to be pitied.
While in the novel there is not a single
sympathetic character, in Renoir’s film
everyone is sympathetic, even the
villain. Mirbeau’s savage, bitter tone
is much more akin to Bunuel’s, but
even Bunuel softens many of the por-
traits. Where the people in Mirbeau
are all morally corrupt, and in Renoir
all morally pure, in Bunuel they are
morally ambiguous. In fact, morality
cannot be said to exist at all in his
film.
diary is a record of her
service with M. and Mme Lanlaire.
There are only two other servants —a
coachman, Joseph, and a cook, Mari-
anne. Next door lives M. Lanlaire’s im-
placable enemy, Captain Mauger, who
has made his own cook mistress of the
house. Mme Lanlaire controls all the
money in her household, and not only
does she restrict her husband’s pocket
money but his sexual allowance as well.
M. Lanlaire consequently looks else-
where. Celestine at first flirts with
him but is finally disgusted by his timi-
dity. The master turns then to Mari-
anne. Celestine herself is interested in
Joseph, the coarse and rather sinister
coachman. Even when she suspects
that it was he who raped and mur-
dered a little girl found in the woods
she continues to find him attractive,
perhaps more so. Captain Mauger’s
cook dies and he offers to take Celes-
tine in on the same basis, but she
refuses, for Joseph has proposed to
her and wants her to establish with
him a cafe in Cherbourg. Shortly before
they depart the Lanlaire’s precious
collection of silver is stolen and Celes-
tine suspects that Joseph was the thief.
She and Joseph live happily ever after
in Cherbourg, ideally mated.
Celestine’s record of these events is
constantly interrupted by reminiscences
about her past employers, in fact these
reminiscences form the most significant
part of the book. They present a pic-
ture of life in 19th-century Paris, focus-
ing on the miseries of the servant,
but covering also the pretensions of
the nouveau riche, the degradation of
society people and the corruption of
religious groups. Hypocrisy, cruelty,
vanity, and perversion appear to prevail
in all strata of society. In this world
only a few from the lower ranks, like
Celestine and Joseph, are able to
succeed by dint of having, or acquiring,
ruthlessness and cunning in equal pro-
portions to those in power.
In the two film versions there are no
“flashbacks,” though some material
from the reminiscences is incorporated
in each case into the action at the Lan-
laire’s. (Bunuel, not surprisingly, adopts
the old shoe fetishist who dies of ecstasy
embracing Celestine’s boots.) The rape
of the little girl was, of course, out of
the question for a Hollywood film in
the ’forties, and, besides, one doubts
that Renoir would have wanted to in-
clude it. Bunuel, on the other hand,
makes it the central incident in his
film it becomes an obsession with
Celestine to convict Joseph of the
crime, though when she fails she is
perhaps not altogether sorry. The
ending is drastically changed by both
directors.
Mirbeau’s novel is accurate as a
portrait of a decadent society, but
first and foremost it is a trifling diver-
sion, even mildly sensational and porno-
graphic. More serious in its purpose,
Renoir’s film version is the account of
a girl’s moral purification—his Celes-
tine, beginning as self-interested almost
as Mirbeau’s, discovers the necessity and
the reward of disinterested action.
Bunuel’s film, while lacking such a well-
developed theme, presents a more
subtle picture of corruption than the
book; he explores the astonishing
admixture of beauty and ugliness in
man, the inextricable tangle of one’s
motives.


WRITING IN
THE SIXTIES
African Tensions
By JACK COPE
LOOKING back, it seems that South
African writing, which reached a
feverish peak of achievement
before 1965, has fallen back into a
kind of blank. At least, the situa-
tion of the writer, and hence of litera-
ture on the local scene, has never been
worse.
In three steps the position of the
writer has been totally undermined in
recent years: the General Laws Amend-
ment Act, 1962, provided that any
person who fell under the displeasure
of the Government could be silenced
in terms of a banning order. The
Publications and Entertainments Act,
1963, introduced elaborate and far-
reaching censorship of everything from
books to films, records, and even shop
windows. The Suppression of Com-
munism Amendment Act, 1965, com-
pleted the structure by providing for
the blanket banning of the statements
and writings of any person, including
even those living outside South Africa,
by the simple administrative act of
listing his name.
These laws are mainly intended to
silence political opponents and critics
of the administration, though it has
never yet been defined where literature
ends and politics begins. Nearly all
South African writers and artists took
part in the desperate and fruitless
efforts to stave off the clamp-down of
censorship, and their struggles and
protests have for years now been part
of the background to the difficult
enough job of writing. The toll has
been heavy. Scores of the country’s
best, most promising, most outspoken
writers have left the country, some
pursued by the police, others volun-
tarily taking the road of exile.
B UT it is strangely true that the years
since 1962 have seen some of the
best writing ever produced by South
Africans. Both in English and Afri-
kaans, new dimensions of depth and
realism have been achieved in the
novel, short story, and drama, while in
poetry (always less affected by censor-
ship and political threats) South
Africans have added a fresh page to
the record. Outstanding work came
from Nadine Gordimer ("Not for Pub-
lication”); Daphne Rook (“The Grey-
ling”); a series of novels by David
Lyiton; a promising first novel by the
banned colored writer Alex La Guma
"A Walk in the Night”; a book of
stories by another colored author,
Richard Rive; two excellent plays by
Athol Fugard—“Blood Knot” and
Hello and Goodbye”; the stories and
essays of the talented young Zulu
Lewis Nkosi.
In Afrikaans, younger writers were
making a startling and in some ways
sensational assault on the hidebound
camp of writing which had a tone and
smell a generation or more behind
trends elsewhere. Etienne Leroux, Jan
Rabie, and Andre Brink introduced
the modern novel to the delight of the
young and the wrath of the Dutch
Reformed Church; Bartho Smit wrote
his challenging plays “The Maimed”
and “Well Without Water” (the latter
printed in Afrikaans but still never
produced). And far the most inspired
young writer was the poet Ingrid Jonker,
whose verse, sometimes fiery, some-
times tender and playful, but always
moving and original, brought in a
spirit of light. A note of ironic disillu-
sionment was struck by the young
colored poet Adam Small using a
curious mixed argot of Afrikaans and
English.
JN English, the founding of the lit-
erary magazine “Contrast” at the
end of 1960 provided a platform for
many hitherto unpublished poets and
fiction writers. This was added to in
1965 by the broadsheet for poetry,
“New Coin.” For the first time in a
generation South African English poets
began to appear regularly in print and
a small burst of published volumes in
1965 and 1966 has witnessed to the
new interest in South African litera-
ture. Among the most notable poets
to appear recently are Ruth Miller
(“The Floating Island”); Laurence
Lerner (“Direction of Memory”); love
and other lyrics by colored poet Dennis
Brutus, who is banned; Adele Naude
(“Only a Setting Forth”); Perseus
Adams (“The Land at My Door”).
Anthony Delius last published a volume
in 1962 and Douglas Livingstone in
1964, while Guy Butler’s new collection
has just appeared. Books of poems of
outstanding interest now in preparation
are first collections by Sydney Clouts
and Charles Eglington and a new selec-
tion by Tania van Zyl.
These poets will be represented to-
gether with a number of others, more
or less established, in the “Penguin
Book of South African Verse,” now at
the publishers and due out in 1967. A
special feature of the Penguin anthology
will be large sections of poems in
translation from Afrikaans, Bushman,
Hottentot, Zulu, Xhosa, and Sotho
originals.
Recent events in South African
literary history should be taken into
account against this seemingly promis-
ing picture. In June, 1965, Nat Nakasa,
Zulu writer in exile, took his life in
New York. In July, 1965, Ingrid
Jonker took her life in Cape Town.
This double blow, and especially the
loss of Ingrid Jonker, seemed to mark
the close of a period. She had been
associated with a loose-knit band of
Afrikaans writers striking out for free
expression and new standards. Their
magazine, “Sestiger,” was bought up
earlier in the year and suppressed and
they have since disbanded. In a com-
ment after Ingrid Jonker’s death, the
novelist Jan Rabie said: “How will the
younger generation of writers fare in a
society that pampers its tame ones into
lapdogs and alienates the wild ones to
death or exile?” As a postscript, friends
of the dead poet established the Ingrid
Jonker Prize for poetry to honor and
preserve her memory and in the interests
of literature. First award of the prize
and medal went this year to Ruth
Miller for her book “The Floating
Island.”
In May, 1966, a play commissioned
by the State from the Afrikaans
“laureate” poet, N. P. van Wyk Louw,
was attacked publicly by the then
Prime Minister, Dr. Verwoerd. Louw,
although a Nationalist and member of
the chauvinist secret society “Die
Broederbond,” had struck a querulous
note by starting his play with the
awkward question: “What is a nation?”
At a celebration of his 60th birthday
soon afterwards, Louw complained
petulantly: “You can say I’m a bad
poet, but don’t call me a bad
Afrikaner.”
In April this year, by a single stroke
(that went almost unnoticed) the Gov-
ernment banned the utterances and
writings of 46 South Africans living
abroad. These include all the black and
colored writers of any note not already
silenced by other bans.
JN a lone protest, Nadine Gordimer
wrote in August: “The work of our
country’s African and colored prose
writers is now non-existent, so far as
South African literature, South African
thinking, South African culture are con-
cerned. They were the voices—some
rasping, some shrill, some clowning,
some echoing prophetically, one or two
deeply analytical—of the 13 million on
the other side of the color bar. We
shall not hear from them again.”
In June this year a special com-
mission of the S.A. Akademie
(Nationalist-inspired cultural front)
recommended a £lOOO literary prize
for the anti-Nationalist romantic poet
and playwright Uys Krige. When it
came up for confirmation, the decision
was rescinded and the prize withdrawn
by the hard-core controllers of the
Akademie. Here, literature is judged
by politics. There are some goals not
worth gaining, some prizes it is better
not to win.
In August, 1966, Nadine Gordimer’s
new short novel, “The Late Bourgeois
World,” was banned by the South
African Censorship Board.
Commenting not on this but on the
situation as a whole, Miss Gordimer
has said: “And can South Africans
boast of a ‘literature’ while, by decree,
in their own country, it consists of
some of the books written by its Black
and White, Afrikaans—and English
writers?”
Jack Cope, well-known South African
critic and anthologist, is co-editor of
"The Penguin Book of South African
Verse.”


It’s been a busy holiday
for GTV-9
' ' ’
t '
-k*A-i Mi*
m
9
: &
AMERICA'S CUP tpiaic
*
*
DAVIS COP TELECAST
WM
m
i«
14
VISIT OF MARSHAiT?
. m ”
■m , :
*• *.«**
»
...
DONALD CAMPBELL SPECIAL
i
GODFREY WINN INTERVIEWS
Highlights from the Davis Cup Challenge
Round played at Kooyong.
A special programme the ‘Bluebird Era’
following the death of Donald Campbell.
A series of five interviews between lead-
ing English journalist Godfrey Winn and Tony
Charlton.
Close-up action of the America’s Cup
Trials in two direct telecasts from five miles
off Sydney Heads also direct telecasts of
Sydney/Hobart race start.
The controversial visit of South Vietnam’s
Marshal Ky.
GTV-9 never takes a holiday from keeping you
up-to-date with the latest local and overseas events.
We are sure this is one reason for our high January
audience. An Anderson Analysis special study shows
that average sets-in-use during the holiday period
vary little when compared with the other eleven
months of the year.
9
GTV


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
What Victories?
THE really striking thing about last week’s Premiers’
Conference was that the usual “victory” by the State
Premiers over the Commonwealth was less of a defeat
than usual. Last June the Premier of N.S.W., for instance,
returned to Macquarie Street in triumph (at least that was
how the Press handouts read) after squeezing an extra $l9
million in loan allocations out of the Commonwealth and
some special grants of $5 million (along with the normal
$2O million rise in tax reimbursements under the formula).
It turned out to be a disaster; fares, rates, and State taxes
had to go up to keep the State afloat. Any more victories like
that and N.S.W. would have gone bankrupt.
Last week the Premiers were again claiming a victory, on
the grounds that the States have been given a special handout
of $5 million and a change in tax reimbursement formula
that will give them a further $8 million—and will enable
N.S.W. and Victoria to go close to wiping out the $4
million deficits they are budgeting for this year. But this
has done little more than correct a ludicrous situation the
States got talked into (at Mr. Askin’s first appearance at a
Premiers’ Conference) in 1965. The basic problem of
Commonwealth-State financial relationships is still unsolved;
the States are still in an intolerable position; the big changes
they wanted in the system have not been made. Sooner or
later big changes will have to be made, not only in the
formula that determines the amount being distributed, but
in the way it is broken up between the States, and Mr. Holt’s
agreement to participate in a significant review of the whole
formula system over the next four months at least indicates
that the new brooms at the Federal Treasury are prepared
to admit that the States have a case worth looking at.
Nevertheless, last week’s meeting bore real fruit, although
the traditional kite-flying by the Premiers actually availed
little. The most improbable kite-fly, the proposal to return
payroll tax revenue to the States, was duly shot down.
Against this, the States made a real gain in getting, at the
Commonwealth’s suggestion, the removal of the time lag in
being reimbursed for wage increases, which would mean an
extra $8 to $lO million resulting from the adjustment for
wage increases up to the end of March. On top of all their
optimism on the economic and financial outlook which was
lavished on business leaders and Premiers in the capital
during the week, the Commonwealth Ministers probably
thought they could afford this modest gesture of generosity*
Tasmania is also to get a special handout for relief, including
house rebuilding, and South Australia assistance for its
natural gas project (Victoria’s is apparently still in abeyance).
Providing the extra money to make up the lag in reim-
bursements won’t be difficult. On a strict accounting basis
for wage increases this year, the Commonwealth gathers the
tax element in these increases into its coffers as soon as they
are paid. For all that, the Treasurer would probably like to
to see the rest of his revenue more buoyant than it has been
so far this year. Indeed, Mr. McMahon is having to wait
rather longer than he thought for the sun to come out on
the economic front. As Mr. Bury reminded him during the
week, the labor market is distinctly sticky. Absorption of
school leavers is falling behind schedule. What is more, the
MEN AND MATTERS
IT was quite a battle last week at a
symposium on research at Sydney
University. The technical director of
Philips Electrical Industries (Australia),
Mr. Harold J. Brown, took a swing at
the way university researchers concen-
trated too much, he claimed, on
abstract work and paid too little atten-
tion to the immediate problems of
industry. And Mr. Brown, the 55-
year-old former Dean of the Faculty
of Engineering at the University of
N.S.W., who has been a Philips man
for the past five years, would have had
plenty of first-hand knowledge of the
sort of research done in universities.
Naturally he did not get away with
this unchallenged; Professor Graeme
Bird, the appropriately named Pro-
fessor of Aeronautical Engineering at
Sydney University, considered it was
“dangerous nonsense” and celebrated
his 37th birthday by saying so.
These two share the same academic
background, are both good North
Shore residents, and seem more likely
to be agreeing than (figuratively) pull-
ing each other’s nose in public.
Although separated by 20 years both
H. J. Brown and G. A. Bird were Fort
Street boys who went on to Sydney
University to do science and engineer-
ing, both gaining Masters’ degrees. But
then Harry Brown went off to work in
industry, joining AWA for a couple of
years before becoming a public servant,
ending up as Controller of the Weapons
Research Establishment at Salisbury
before resigning in 1958.
While at Salis-
bury, Brown had
Graeme Bird on
his staff as a scien-
tific officer. Bird
had just come back
from two years in
Britain, spent at
the Cranfield Col-
lege of Aeronautics
as an attached
scientist and at
Farnborough RAE.
But,in 1960, shortly
after Harry, Brown
decided to move back to industry, Dr.
Bird (he had added a Ph.D. in the
meantime) came back into the academic
life.
Both men are definitely on opposite
sides‘of the table now, and unless the
views they hold (which reflect the
conflict between the academic and busi-
ness worlds) can be reconciled and the
miserable proportion of top graduates
who go into industry (only 5 per-
cent of technical or scientific Ph.D.s
produced by Australian universities are
employed in local industry) can be
increased, then Australian industry will
continue to be hopelessly dependent on
overseas research.
BORN of pioneering Gippsland
farming stock and disciplined by
a tough university program,
strenuous oarsmanship on the Yarra
and 31 years of industrial experience,
Sir Archibald
Prof. G. A. Bird
H. J. Brown
Sir Archibald Glenn’s energies seem,
unlimited. His job as chairman and
joint managing director of ICIANZ,
guiding the fortunes of our biggest
chemicals complex whose massive con-
tinuous expansion program is about
the nearest rival to BHP’s in the in-
dustrial field, would be sufficient to sap
those of most people.
Next month, when the first students
arrive on the campus of La Trobe Uni-
versity, they will be heavily in Glenn’s
debt. In the manner of so many of
ICIANZ’s, the project has been brought
to fruition in less than two years since
inception. The work was shared, of
course, by the lively interim council
of the new university but as its chair-
man, dedicated as a top industrialist to
meeting production targets, Glenn’s
drive is paramount in getting things
done. Appropriately the first college
there is named after him and he has
been appointed Chancellor.


gap between registrants for work and job vacancies has
widened lately; seasonally corrected, it is three times what it
was a year ago. This is not to speak of disguised unemploy-
ment, another problem.
Possibly, with the Government facing a heavy deficit this
year, the Treasurer is not all that happy at now having to
stretch it a bit wider on the States’ behalf, despite the Minister
of Labor’s figures. While the balance of payments is deterior-
ating, albeit not all that ominously, and capital inflow has
fallen from last year’s heights, Mr. McMahon will need to
be sparing in injecting new Government money into the
economy. Admittedly he still has ample resources to play
the tables a bit. But if Mr. Holyoake’s bowing to the falling
wool market holds an economic moral for us, it is not to
play them too hard.
An Interlockers' Picnic
PLAYERS of the presently popular game of spotting inter-
locking directorships would have had a field day at
ICIANZ’s annual meeting in its cosy boardroom on the
17th floor at No. 1 Nicholson Street, in Melbourne, last week.
Quite a few of Hilda Rolfe’s favorite interlockers were there.
As well as Sir Colin Syme, M. A. Cuming, and Sir Henry
Somerset among Melbourne’s leading exponents on the board,
Sir Roland Wilson, one of the most promising, was offering
himself for formal election to the 17-man team.
Interlocking aside, to Sir Colin Syme, who, like M. A.
Cuming, had had to face up to hundreds of shareholders ask-
ing awkward questions at such uncomfortable places as a con-
verted Goldsbrough Mort wool store and the South Mel-
bourne Town Hall in recent years, the meeting and setting
must have been nostalgic. Not a single rude question, not
even a murmur of complaint about ICIANZ’s declining earn-
ings rate and, naturally, none at the maintenance of the
dividend in face of this and the meagre cover now pertaining.
To get the real feel of the company world, Sir Roland will
obviously have to join Sir Colin at BHP.
With only seven present directors compared with ICIANZ’s
17, BHP’s boardroom is not so crowded, either, which raised
the question why ICIANZ needs more directors to run it
than any other company in the country. This question
shrinks somewhat when it is realised that five of the board
represent the parent company, ICI, in Britain, and seven of
the other 11 are executive directors.
Those Who Can Can't
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S carefully created fruit-
canning industry is facing the danger of collapse. The
only thing that will save it is an interstate concern
moving in and taking over, for the Perth firm of Plaistowe
and Co. Ltd. plan to close their doors for canning this
summer —a move already postponed since last year after
pressure from the State Government.
Plaistowe claims they cannot run their canning operation
economically, and that the confectionery side of their bush
ness is more lucrative. But this offers little consolation to
the growers, who were attracted by the company into
planting 30,000 fruit trees on 200 choice acres. To the
consumer, the situation must seem ludicrous, for the peaches
have been favored by buyers for their quality. The State
Government, which helped finance Plaistowe into the
scheme, is now working to bring in a group to take up the
running, if only to save the State about $500,000 worth of
imports each year.
The scheme was approached with a great deal of planning,
at least superficially. Trial growing proved the Golden
Queen peach to be the best proposition, and then growers
were encouraged to go into this variety, with the assurance
of a set price which last year Was $97 a ton. However, the
buyers found their costing to be inaccurate. This problem
was compounded last season when the fruit went into the
factory, apparently in peak condition, but then failed to
withstand the mechanical processing. The growers con-
cerned were given only half-price for their product and then
were told no more fruit would be bought. Many failed to
prune their trees before the State Government negotiated a
reprieve.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
FOr the economy: Plaudits from all sides greeted
a more amenable financial atmosphere between Com-
monwealth and States at the Canberra Premiers’ Con-
ference. Mr. Holt changed the State reimbursement
formula to give the States about $8 million extra funds
and added a further $5 million in the form of a non-
recurring grant.
Mr. Bury still cannot “draw any precise conclusions”
from the latest employment statistics, except to record
that the January rise in unemployed registrants “was
greater than in recent years.” These registrants totalled
88,965, while vacancies fell back to 49,854.
January’s trading bank deposits added $B5 million to
hit a peak $5382.9 million ($334 million above January,
1966); advances dropped seasonally by $18.3 million to
$2934 million.
A seven months’ wool cheque has yielded $414.04
million— slB.7 million above the proceeds to January
of the previous year.
For the markets: Industrials shed a little un-
certainty as the weekend approached for Australian
sharemarkets. The erratic tone did not disappear as
far as metals and oils were concerned.
Unsettlement in London proceeds from fears of what
April’s Budget may contain; ICl’s reduced profit won’t
help matters . . . Wall Street’s withdrawal is being called
consolidation on a lack of buying incentive.
For companies: Receivership has failed to lessen
the shocks exuded by H. G. Palmer (Consolidated).
Between October 25, 1965, and June 28, 1966, the group
lost another $6,449,434; trading losses now continue to
a “markedly less degree,” yet the trading future is
“largely unpredictable.” Remaining assets are $4,026,013
below what is owing to debenture holders. The bad
and doubtful debts provision “will not prove adequate,”
auditors believe.
Perhaps the shock (of a rather different order) from
General Motors-Holden’s was more or less expected;
anyhow, profit went down by $2,728,762 to $22,618,586
on sales up by $3.82 million to $345.95 million. The
U.S. parent got a net $11.9 million dividend, against
the previous year’s $l7 million.
Elsewhere in the vehicle field, parts maker Repco
pushed its first-half earnings up 8 percent and sees
“further gradual strengthening” . . . Distributor Larke
Consolidated traded at a lower level to December,
although special circumstances brought profit up from
$242,103 to $273,066 . . . Gear-box maker Borg-Wamer
lost $492,341 in 1966 and could manage neither prefer-
ence nor ordinary dividends; 1965 had produced
$895,792 profit . . . Petroleum group H. C. Sleigh sold
4.5 percent more of its products; pre-tax earnings to
December added $114,000 to reach $2,888,000.
Whatever happens to other builders, A. V. Jennings
keeps right on; to December profits rose 30 percent to
$529,386 on turnover up by $7.3 million, or 28.3 per
cent . . . Building industry supplier Fred Clark has
conquered the previous (1965-66) year’s troubles and is
now trading to budget; a 5 percent interim contrasts with
last year’s full 1\ percent (final omitted) . . . Queens-
land’s Appleton Industries finds December sales and
profits “very satisfactory,” though both below 1965’s
levels.
On the chemicals front, Union Carbide brings interim
dividend from 5 to 7 percent; more sales gave slightly
less profit . . . ICIANZ discloses better sales for the first
quarter of 1966-67.
Cotton spinner and weaver Davies, Coop lost some
ground in the first half, but directors predict a profit
over the full year . . . The same situation and a similar
forecast came from food-maker Petersville . . . Helping
to restore retailing cheer, Woolworths arrived with earn-
ings up by 6.7 percent to a record $7,900,831; earning
rate eased again on higher capital.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO HILDEGARD SOPHIE MUSAL.—
TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR MUSAL
has filed Petition No. 4649 of 1936 for
divorce on the grounds of Desertion
and Separation. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the Bth day of March, 1967. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. G. M.
STAFFORD & CO., Solicitor, 107-109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO ROY BUTLER, formerly of Ernest
Street, Belmont North. TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES RANKIN has
filed a Petition No. 3207 of 1966 on the
ground of your adultery with EILEEN
MAUDE RANKIN and seeks orders for
custody, settlement of property and
costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
15th day of March, 1967. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. JOHN D.
NORTON RICKARD & SYMONDS,
Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Exercise in Disinflation
By CROESUS
ALTHOUGH Mr. Keith Holyoake,
New Zealand’s PM, had long been
acting on the catch-cry “to hell
with the balance of payments,” popu-
larised recently by THE BULLETIN,
and letting the economy run on as if
the sky was its spending limit, he has
ultimately had to bow to the impover-
ished state of the country’s overseas
reserves and the dimmed prospect for
their early replenishment. Only the
very innocent among New Zealanders
enjoying the high prosperity of the
overloaded economy in the past year or
more believed stern economic correc-
tives could be delayed much longer
after the recent election. It was just
a matter of the PM finding a face-
saver for his expressions of economic
optimism during the election campaign.
This appeared soon enough. In his
New Year message to the nation, only
five weeks after the election, Mr.
Holyoake frankly admitted that, with
the balance of payments, he had been
gambling on a big improvement in
wool and mutton exports. The gamble
hadn’t come off. Even though bolstered
by two overseas loans in the past six
months, the nation’s international
reserves had dropped to the equivalent
of less than two months’ imports already
cut to the bone (admittedly a bone
tailored to overfull employment and
over-ambitious targets for public works
and industrial development).
The N.Z. Government was reckon-
ing on a fall in the price of wool this
season from last year’s 42d. to 40d.
per lb., averaged over the whole clip,
but it now expects only 36d. per lb. To
make matters much worse for the BOP
almost a fifth of the N.Z. wool clip so
far offered at auctions this year has
been bought in by the N.Z. Wool Com-
mission under the reserve price scheme.
In the latest auction at Wellington,
percent of the wool offered was
bought in and so the BOP won’t benefit
from it (supporters of reserve price
should think over the economic implica-
tions of this!).
If N.Z. was to get another drawing
from the IMF to meet an approaching
impasse on the external front, it would
have to demonstrate to that body more
earnest intentions of economic retrench-
ment on the domestic front. So, all
January, the Monetary and Economic
Council was engaged in cooking up not
just a dose of palliatives to deal with
what the PM was in public still call-
ing a short-term problem, but rather
a series of recommendations to deal
with a deep-rooted economic imbalance
arising as much from structural dis-
tortions as from untenable levels of
Government expenditure and private
consumption.
rpHE plan stops short of what many
N.Z. economists think is needed —a
restoration of the full play of market
forces in a country now under the
widest umbrella of controls of any in
the Western world. It concentrates
primarily on orthodox deflationary
devices such as stiffening hire-purchase
terms, increasing charges for Govern-
ment services, postponing public sector
investment, and increasing taxation—all
intended to buttress the stringent mone-
tary policy of the past couple of years,
which has failed sufficiently to restrain
the build up of inflationary pressures
under the umbrella.
The exception to this pattern is the
quite unexpected removal of consumer
subsidies, which will have the double
effect of substantially cutting Govern-
ment expenditure and of shortening the
purchasing power of consumers. Also,
as with the recent diminution of the
subsidy element in railway freights, the
'plan provides for an increase in the
prices of other goods and services pro-
vided by the Government, which (it is
no secret) generally contain disguised
subsidies —postal and telephones, State
rents, capital loans.
As the violent reaction of Labor to
them attests, Mr. Holyoake, even with
three more years as PM in the bag,
has taken a big political risk in making
these exceptions, because they hit New
Zealanders below the high belt of their
conceptions of social justice. But
economists, particularly one who re-
cently averred that “social services,
defence, and subsidies on basic foods
are politically sacrosanct,” can only
applaud.
The banks say that early this month,
in expectation that Mr. Holyoake would
devalue the N.Z. pound on February
10, there was a marked increase in
purchases of foreign exchange by
holders of import permits. However,
there was no great rush. If devalua-
tion is to come this year, as some but
not all N.Z. economists think desirable,
it is suggested that July 10, when N.Z.
changes to decimal currency, would be
an appropriate date. I will believe
this only when I see it, however strong
the case on purchasing power parity
grounds and as a booster to tourism
income or simply as a first step in get-
ting a realistic exchange rate to do the
work of import controls so much more
effectively.
It seems that Auckland economists
are more convinced on the merits of
devaluation than those in Wellington
where, of course, the Government
resides. For instance, two of the lead-
ing economists at Victoria University,,
in Wellington, have come down dead
against devaluation given a bold attack,
as now being mounted, against excess
spending. Economics professor F. W.
Holmes has stated that, as the problems
facing the Government arise from
internal inflation, the important thing
to do first is to bring the rise in spend-
ing under control; then, if internal
inflation is brought under control,
devaluation wouldn’t be necessary. The
head of the Department of Political
Science, Professor R. H. Brooks, also at
Victoria University, argues that devalua-
tion wouldn’t be of any use on its own
because wage orders and price and cost
rises would nullify its effects during the
present period of inflated demand.
D. L. Gadiel, of the University of
Auckland, argues in favor of devalua-
tion as a necessary structural change to
replace the traditional official policy
of bottling up inflation by refusing to
let the price system function normally.
Resort to import and exchange controls,
which are integral to official policy, only
insulates the domestic economy from
the inflationary effects of Government
spending and the resulting balance of
payments crises. Further, Gadiel thinks
this policy has produced an extremely
inefficient allocation of resources in
N.Z., its consequential price distortions
have inhibited true growth industries,
and it has greatly restricted the mar-
ginal productivity of captial.
So Gadiel suggests abandoning import
restrictions in favor of exchange and
internal price adjustments, “as a means
of effecting a more rational distribu-
tion of resources and alleviating the
strain on the balance of payments under
conditions of full employment . . .”
Recognising that past reluctance to
employ exchange devaluation could in
part have hinged on the theory that
it would only intensify the rises in
incomes and costs resulting from exist-
ing inflationary pressures, he points out
that recent research in N.Z. by Brownlie
and Hampton has shown that the most
significant determinant of wages in
N.Z. is the demand for labor, and he
thinks this “lends some credence to the
view that the likely effects of devalua-
tion on costs would not differ greatly
from the measures that might normally
have to be taken to reduce imports.”


... m :
~ '• . ' . • : : . '
'
•j§*®A' v ;x .', -
:
ins i
Where Can
FUJI Electric Help?
Looking at the ambitious develop-
ment programs being carried out in
Australia, we keep asking this ques-
tion. And the answer keeps coming
back in the form of orders—from
government, from industry, and
from a multitude of private citizens.
It seems that they’ve all discovered
that where electricity needs to be
generated, transmitted, distributed
or put to work, Fuj[i Electric usually
has a more economical, more ef-
ficient way to do it.
The man in the street and his wife
are probably most familiar with
Fuji’s fine line of home appliances
which have made their daily lives
so much more pleasant, healthy
and efficient. Washing machines and
vacuum cleaners take the drudgery
out of cleaning, while TV sets, stereo
equipment and transistor radios give
new sparkle and vigor to recreation.
Our proudest accomplishment has
been showing thousands of fam-
ilies how fresh-squeezed fruit and
vegetable juices can set the founda-
tion for true health and stamina . . .
especially when the juices are scien-
tifically extracted with a Fuji Juicer.
But leaders in government and
industry know how Fuji Electric can
help and has helped in many ways
that are fundamental to Australia’s
long-term development. The first
contribution was made in the 950
KW Pelton-type turbine and genera-
tor which was delivered to the Snowy
Mountains Authority in 1964. Other
important projects to which Fuji has
contributed, or will contribute, in-
clude the Para Substation, the
Lemonthyme Power Station, and the
Wilmot Power Station.
Where can Fuji Electric help?
In components, in appliances, in
equipment, in complete systems
for the generation, transmission and
utilization of electricity.
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CO.LTH (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Aluminium, ton
This
week
£ 196
Week's
change
Year
ago
£ 196
Copper, w.b., ton
£ 432V2
- £ I8V2
£ 680
Gold, oz.
251/83/ 4
-%d.
250/113/ 4
Lead, ton
£ 813/ 4
+ £ 33/s
£ 1051/8
Silver, ton
1113/ 4 d.
—
1113/ad.
Tin, ton
Wolfram, unit
£ 11993/4
- £ 3
£ 1394
357/6
—
252/6
Zinc, ton
£ IO31/2
+ £3/ 8
£ 109 7-16-
Wheat, Aust., ton
£-26%
£ 265/8
Linseed oil, ton
£ 86
—
£ 891/2
Cocoa, 50 kilos
226/6
+9d.
165/-
Cotton, Am., lb.
22.5d.
+0.35d.
23.35d.
Rubber, lb.
17 7-16d.
-9-16d.
211/sd.
Super, ton
£ 17
+ £ IV4
£ 21
Wool tops,
64s lb.
114d.
ll&d.
WILD CAT
PAGES
Some Useful Pickings Around
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
By JASON in Sydney
THE interims are good and the
market is going down. That is
what we expected. When the flow
of good reports eases and some of the
sadder ones come out, the market could
retreat a little more (especially if the
Government puts out any more employ-
ment figures like last week’s).
But this simply means that there will
be some good buying opportunities, par-
ticularly in those companies that have
not responded to good interim news—
or have even slipped back on it. For
the market is set to go up again later
this year, although the capital goods
companies may lag a bit behind the
general recovery in keeping with the
facts of economic life.
The motor stocks generally look a
lot better than for some time, with
Repco still tops in quality despite the
price. Larke looks interesting, but
Borg-Warner’s unexpected second half
loss (and no dividends), through indus-
trial trouble, is most disturbing in view
of directors’ earlier forecasts.
The road transport industry seems
set for improvement this • year follow-
ing the TNT and F. H. Stephens
interims. Mayne Nickless looks appeal-
ing at current prices, for it seems
among the best able to cope with the
containerisation trend.
The lower earning rate from Wool-
worths as capital expanded faster than
profit is nothing to be too concerned
about and the lower returns from Union
Carbide, Swift, and McPhersons reflect
a passing phase.
One heartening feature of many of
the poorer results that have come out
so far is the directorial confidence that
things will be better for the full year.
Directors of Ampol predicted a half-
year downturn but a recovery in the
second six months; Larke looks to a
better year although trading was lower
in the first half, and so on. The next
three months could provide some use-
ful pickings.
Keeping the doors of the h. g.
Palmer chain of retail electrical
appliance stores open for busi-
ness may be in the best interests of its
creditors, including the misdirected life
assurance company that owns it, but
there is a good case in the public
interest why the whole show should be
closed up as quickly as possible.
At present the receiver is continuing
to trade, incurring whopping great
losses (all of which are tax deductible,
of course) in the hope of limiting the
amount of capital loss (non-deductible)
he may incur if he had to sell the stores
off in a hurry.
The continued existence of a bank-
rupt group like this in an overcapitalised
industry like electrical appliance retail-
ing is absurd; the effect of this on public
companies in this area, like Eric
Anderson, Electronic Industries (with
its Reid’s, stores), and even the big
retailing groups like Grace Bros.,
Myers, and Waltons, is serious and
disruptive.
It is not good enough for the
Palmer group to point to its unavailing
efforts to bring some measure of price
stability into this industry; it is a
structural wrong that needs righting, not
a pricing agreement. Yet the longer
the Palmer group trades and the bigger
the tax losses become, the more they
will be worth on disposal and (provided
the assets are not hurriedly sold at low
prices) the better off the secured
creditors will be.
The best interests of the MLC and
other secured creditors are not the only
factors that should be attracting the
attention of Mr. Jackson. Unless the
H. G. Palmer group closes down, there
is going to be a real risk that its very
existence as it continues to trade at a
loss will force others to the wall.
THE Albert G. Sims interim report
was far better than it looked. The
1\ percent profit fall for the first
half of the year, that pushed the scrap
merchant’s earning rate on an annual
basis down to 25 percent, was after some
unusual once-and-for-all costs relating
to its Melbourne business, which is be-
lieved to have been significantly re-
organised. This, far more than the end
of the easy profits that could be made
from the overseas copper market last
year, appeared to be the cause of the
latest profit fall, which should be more
than made up for the full year. Cur-
rent prices around 70, giving a dividend
yield of 7 percent, cents look interesting.
THE optimists are looking “righter”
about Consolidated Gold Fields as-
time goes by but there is still
a speculative gap between the group’s
market price and the apparent value
of its activities. No matter how bad
it may be in national policy terms, the
weekend’s news about a big iron ore
“fines” export contract following the
development agreement with the Jap-
anese over Gold Fields’ copper prospect
at Mt. Hope was enough to wipe out
the impact of lower half-year profits
from the Commonwealth Mining In-
vestments subsidiary. And the group
seems to be doing a good deal for it-
The Chartist- says:
ROTHMANS OF PALL MALL was charted in the issue of February 12, 1966,
when the Security Analyst believed that this stock could be bought with
confidence about the $3.00 level. However, the charts indicated that
Rothmans was more likely to fall; a downside target of $2.40 was indicated at
that time and this was subsequently achieved in November, 1966. A warning was
also given in the issue of December 31, 1966, should prices fall below $2.30 in
the short term. The decline to a low of $2.00 during the past week shows that the
stock is very weak technically and has broken the 1960 support level. It is quite
likely that prices could react back to the trendline and provide a good selling oppor-
tunity for investors who wish to avoid further erosion of capital as the possibility
of an eventual decline to approximately the $1.50 level exists. Last sale price on
17/2/67 —51.90.


A temple of
gold dust
The Ruvanveli Saya or gold
dust temple, when built in
B.C. 144, had in its relic
chamber priceless jewels
and a golden image of the
Buddha on a golden throne.
The majestic splendour of
this dagoba can be
admired even today after
2000 years.
In an ancient land, a modern banking service
gt ot*r-
The Bank of Ceylon, controlling over half the total bank
deposits in Ceylon, offers a modern and up-to-date
banking service including Intelligence Reports, Credit
Information, financing of exports and imports, and every
type of foreign exchange transaction.
In their trade relations with Ceylon, enterprising exporters
and importers can depend on the Bank of Ceylon.
London Office: 48/54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Foreign Dept.: York Street, Colombo 1.
Central Office: 41 Bristol Street, Colombo.
BANK OF CEYLON
32 Banking Offices in Ceylon. 5 Pay Offices.
□
%
INTEREST
UP TO
r PER
ANNUM
debenture stock &
unsecured notes
Applications for Debentures and Notes accepted only on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney. 2-0324
ASK THE ‘WALES’ FOR DETAILS
M66B(N)
self by having its Associated Minerals
subsidiary acquire its Wyong Minerals
subsidiary.
The agreement announced at the
weekend to supply 3,125,000 tons of
iron ore fines to a consortium of Jap-
anese steel mills at the rate of 500,000
tons a year adds a nice layer of cream
to the profits from the existing 16J mil-
lion tons order for ore, being delivered
at the rate of 2-j million tons a year.
Despite the obvious interest of the
Commonwealth Government in pricing
matters, no price was mentioned on this
deal; .it seems possible that up to $7 a
ton may have been agreed, so the con-
tract could add a further $22 million to
the existing $144 million deal with
a large proportion of it in profit as
it would not have to carry any of the
overheads which are being covered out
of the original contract. So the latest
deal could add as much as another 20
cents a share to Goldfields’ likely profit
from iron ore, so lifting the possible
total to about 70 cents.
However, there has been a gap of
$1.50 a share between the value of
CGFA’s portion of its subsidiaries’
capitalisation and its own market capi-
talisation. This gap had been assumed
here as the market’s view of what Gold-
fields’ iron ore interests were worth
(about three times their apparent
value in profit terms unless there
were more contracts). The fines agree-
ment (which, by the way, appears to
have been known for some time, as the
first shipment under it left Port Hed-
land last week) gives a more realistic
look to prices for Goldfields’ shares over
the $4 mark.
The gap (already reduced to $1 by
cash in hand equal to 50 cents a share
that was raised by last year’s public
issue) is now down to a reasonably
speculative level.
THE Western Australian Govern-
ment halved a political dilemma
last week with an offhand an-
nouncement that Cliffs Western Aus-
tralia Mining Co. planning was being
broadened to consider using Cape Lam-
bert. Cape Lambert has become a
cornerstone of the Lang Hancock plan
for the north, one that runs contrary to
the State Government’s intention for the
area. Mr. Hancock wants to ship
Wittenoom asbestos and upgraded
Mt. Lockyer iron ore out through Cape
Lambert, in the meantime changing
the whole philosophy of the area by
rationalising other projects, including
Cliffs’.
However, by asking Cliffs to explore
the engineering possibilities of Cape
Lambert, the Minister for the North
West, Mr. Charles Court, has turned
the situation his way. It seems now
that the Hancock proposals could be-
come an appendage of the Cliffs scheme,
instead of being the tail that wagged
the dog, as Mr. Hancock would have
it. His asbestos and iron ore could still
follow their proposed route, but by
having Cliffs at Cape Lambert Mr.
Court would make this the key project
on which the other would rest.
Cliffs have a firm contract to export
through Cape Preston, but this could
possibly be amended without the Jap-
anese buyers using it as a bargaining
lever if requested by the State Govern-
ment for other reasons—in this case,
to dovetail with the Hancock pro-
P°sals.
Overseas reports say that an agree-
ment between Daniel K. Ludwig’s
Sentinel Mining Co. and the Western
Australian Government is imminent —
after 3J years of negotiations. Such
an agreement has been expected at
least since October. Ludwig’s part in
any rationalisation of the Hancock
nature, or any move to Cape Lambert,
is likely to be an important one. But
meanwhile he is surveying far away—
an open seaport up the coast from Port
Hedland as a port for his limited
reserves of ore 50 miles inland from the
coast at Nimingarra.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
DEBENTURE
STOCK
4
6 or 10
YEARS
0
1
2v
UNSECURED
NOTES
3 years
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in, the
Prospectus, which may be obtained from:
• Any branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge House,
249 George Street, Sydney. Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA, NEWCASTLE.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House
249 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation,
a copy of your Prospectus.
MR./MRS./MISS
ADDRESS
8824
Watch Bryce for Bargains
By PELIAS in Melbourne
ITS profit will probably fall a little in
the year to March 31, but investors
seeking a fairly high, while never-
theless secure, income should keep their
eyes open for any bargain prices that
may develop to buy the 50-cent shares
of Melbourne-based merchant, importer,
and indentor Robert Bryce and Co.
The shares have remained virtually
unchanged at about 81 cents for well
over a year, to give a yield of 7.7 per-
cent from the 12| percent dividend
(well covered in 1965-66 by the 19.2
percent earning rate). The likely lower
profit in the current year to March 31
should not endanger the dividend.
The group specialises in supplying
raw materials and equipment from over-
seas and local principals to secondary
industry, mainly the chemical industry
and the electroplating and laundry
industries. Hence, it should be affected
to some extent by the recently increased
tariffs on some chemical items. It is
possible that any such adverse influ-
ence will be offset by the extra business
flowing the company’s way as the effects
of the drought wear off. It is also
believed that increasing income is being
contributed by a relatively new sub-
sidiary, Weldex Pty. Ltd., maker of
welding electrodes and equipment.
The establishment costs of this sub-
sidiary sent profits down heavily in
1964-65, but they were more than
recovered by the 1965-66 jump from
$115,000 to $163,000. Financially, the
company is solid. Asset backing for
each of the shares is more than $l. In
the past two years, tax provision has
heavily exceeded the profit. It was
$201,000 in 1965-66 and $183,000 in
1964-65. Frequent asset revaluations
over recent years have lifted reserves
well above the level of paid capital.
ALTHOUGH Bell Bros. 50c shares
are currently just below a peak
$1.60 and yielding an unattractive
3.5 percent from dividends, there seems
a fair chance that the company’s close
ties with the developments in Western
Australia will eventually take the mar-
ket up over the $2 mark. Probably the
situation is one for long-term buyers
only, although the company seems to
be a member of that list of unpredict-
ables which can spring capital or divi-
dend benefits on shareholders without
warning.
It was listed in 1965 and in the year
to June 30 last it doubled net profit
to return 30.4 percent on capital.
Maiden dividend was 10 percent
meagre in view of the earning rate. The
jump was directly attributable to the
increase in business brought about by
the mineral and industrial developments
in W.A. The group’s operations cover
heavy haulage, quarrying, plant hire,
aircraft hire, tyre distribution and re-
treading, and manganese mining. Its
services are used extensively by the
iron-ore producers and other developers.
Quarrying operations are tied to the
rapid rate of road-building in W.A.
Substantial benefits seem inevitable
for shareholders, although the con-
servative nature of management could
delay them. An example of this con-
servatism was the 1965-66 interim
report; it announced a higher profit
after a satisfactory improvement in sales.
When the actual half-yearly accounts
were made available two months later
they revealed a profit of $319,000 for
the half as compared with the $316,000
earned in the previous full financial
year.
The full 1965-66 result turned out to
be double the previous year after
doubled tax and doubled depreciation
—both the latter items appeared higher
than would normally be expected. The
interim report for the current year
should be released early next month and
there is a strong likelihood of an
increased interim dividend.
Apart from the profit boost which
is expected from increasing W.A.
activity in the current year, added
returns will be provided by the com-
pany’s manganese operations. They have
not contributed substantially to results
for years because of low domestic
demand (particularly as BHP has
switched to using its own Groote
Eylandt ore) and small export
quotas. The quotas were raised
recently and the group signed export
contracts with Japan for $3.25 million
worth of manganese ore for delivery
this year and in 1968.
THIS week’s news of a good half-
year profit and a maiden- dividend
adds weight to the recommenda-
tions sent to clients of two Melbourne
brokers in the past fortnight about the
Sydney manufacturing and retailing
confectionery group Darrell Lea. The
50-cent shares were floated off four
months ago at 90 cents apiece and fell
to their low point of 83 cents a few
weeks after listing. But since mid-
January they have settled between 96
cents and $l.
There has not yet been evidence of
solid selling from any one quarter in
the heavy turnover of the company’s
early days on the market, but expecta-
tions of a good interim combined with
an easing sales volume to push the
shares back up. The solid sales rise
in the first half (helped significantly by
the operations of the recently acquired
Ricci Remond subsidiary) and the
normal growth generated by the com-
pany’s energetic marketing techniques
should combine with several other
factors to boost 1966-67 profits.
Last year’s double cover of the pre-
dicted percent dividend should be
far wider by the time 1966-67 results
are announced.


Who uses
leasing
-and why?
More companies are leasing... public companies... small well managed private companies. Professional men,
All types of businesses. Why do they lease? Because it pays them. Here are some of their reasons.
Even companies with adequate cash
or borrowing power find leasing can
benefit them
It can be more profitable to lease new
equipment and pay for its use out of pre
tax profits. Consider the cost of servicing
expanded capital out of after tax profits.
A discussion on these and other aspects
of leasing with General Credits, the
people who know leasing, could be of
great benefit to your company.
Leasing has always been popular
with the business and professional
man . . .
These men particularly, recognise that it
is the use of equipment—not ownership,
that produces profits. The Doctor with
his car; the Dentist with his surgery
equipment; the Engineer with his mach-
ine tools; the Accountant with his busi-
ness equipment.
-
For the expanding business leasing
frees capital
Expanding businesses are usually
hungry for capital to cope with their
rapid growth. Leasing capital equipment
permits them to take advantage of busi-
ness opportunities; their own funds are
available for use in other directions.
More and more fleet owners
are using the General Credits
Lease Plan
Maintaining an up-to-date, efficient
vehicle or fleet is an ever present prob-
lem with most businessmen. Study the
General Credits Motor Vehicles Lease
Plan; you will find our quotations attrac-
tive.
How General Credits can help you
-- they know leasing
One of the first in the leasing field,
General Credits has seen its Lease Plan
for acquiring plant and equipment of all
kinds without capital outlay become
more popular each year with businesses
of every kind. Perhaps leasing could
help your Company. Talk it over with
General Credits.
Any of the General Credits services which include
Leasing. Hire Purchase. General Finance,
Property Finance, can also be arranged at any
branch of The Commercial Bank of Australia
Limited.
General
Xjredits
LEASING DIVISION
Melbourne, 277 William St. 60 0241
Sydney, 396 Pitt St. 61 8276
Brisbane, 633 Ann St.,
The Valley 5 3971
Adelaide, 41 Pirie St. 87-383
Perth, 1097 Kay St. 21 8841
Branches at: Geelong,
Warrnambool, Albury, Newcastle,
Townsville, Hobart, Canberra,
Bathurst, Wagga, Gosford
or ask at any branch of the C.B.A .
GC.201.


Chief Internal
Auditor
A large International organisation operating throughout
Australia and New Zealand is seeking a qualified Accountant
with professional experience to manage their Internal Audit
Division.
Location Sydney.
This is an executive appointment and a generous salary
will be paid in accordance with qualifications and experience.
Some travel will be necessary in order to carry out Audits,
and to supervise staff in the field.
Further opportunities for advancement are available, both
locally and overseas within the organisation.
Apply in writing to:
“Internal Auditor,”
C/o Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co.,
82 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Clouded Future for Email
THE quest of high yielding “leaders”
must certainly lead to Email
Ltd. In fact, one often wonders
why the company has remained in the
leader category, for the dividend yield
has been above 5 percent for many
years apart from a spell in “mad nine-
teen sixty.” The statistics show the
dreary record of the past five years:
Year to December 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Net profit s’ooo 1030 1238 1208 1210 694
Ordinary capital sm. 11 0 11 0 11 O 11 0 11.0
Ordinary shareholders’
funds sm. 26 4 28.6 28.8 29 5 30 0
Earningst adjusted)
% Ord. capital 9 3 11 3 11 0 11 0 5 8
% Ord. SHF 39 43 42 41 2.3
Tax % pre-tax profit 30 1 32 3 31 5 30.6 23.6
Depreciation % plant n.a. 39 4 35.3 35 2 31.2
Current ratio 30 27 24 25 23
Proprietorship % 70 69 70 66 63
NT A per share c 120 130 131 134 136
Earnings per share c 4 7 5 7 5.5 5 5 2 9
Dividends per share c 5 0 5 0 5.0 5.0 3 0
Share prices: High c 102 93 91 99 85
Low c 74 70 70 72 40
Although the record of the percent-
age of the tax provision to pre-tax
profit would suggest that the profit is
being less conservatively stated as the
years go by, it is worth noting that:
(a) The group apparently first had
the benefits of tax losses in 1961 and
it is possible that such benefits have
been a feature since that year.
(b) Although investment income is
still not as large as it was in 1962 (the
first year it was disclosed), it has been
increasing over the past three years and
in 1965 represented nearly 63 percent
of the total group profit before tax. It
is likely that a fair proportion of the
investment income takes the form of
dividends on which tax would not be
payable.
These factors when taken into
account would suggest that the tax
provision in 1965 was overstated rather
than understated. This points up one
of the major problems facing analysts:
“What adjustments should be made
where the tax provision seems to be at
variance with the pre-tax profit?” This
problem cannot be argued here, but I
am sure that there is a good case for
greater disclosure in the make-up of
the tax provision.
The original company was formed in
1934 to merge Electricity Meter Manu-
facturing Company, of Sydney, and
New Systems Telephones, of Mel-
bourne. It is now more than ten years
since Mr. J. T. Carroll died and it
seems to be the general opinion that
he was responsible for building up the
large complex of companies that gave
Email a commanding position in many
fields of industrial activity.
Since 1957, the group seems to have
concentrated on internal re-organisation
with a view to improving management
control. Despite the intergration which
has taken place in the past ten years,
it is clear that the Email Group is still
a manufacturer and distributor of a
very wide range of products. In a
leaflet which I have in my file, unfor-
tunately undated, there are over 150
different products listed, and they were
then sold under about a dozen brand
names. One would gain the impression
that the main products are “consumer
products,” such as refrigerators, cook-
ing stoves, washing machines, etc., and
that these would have been closely fol-
lowed by air-conditioning and other in-
dustrial refrigeration. The trends in the
volume of production of these items are
not unattractive as the following indices
based on the 1960-61 year show:
1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Domestic refrigerators 100 95 94 92 104
Solid fuel stoves 100 91 86 89 75
Electric stoves 100 108 130 162 178
Gas stoves 100 93 79 112 123
Washing machines 100 113 110 114 130
Compressors for refrigera-
tion or air-conditioning
equipment 100 112 119 134 167
Admittedly, growth in domestic re-
frigerators has been negligible but, in
the case of electric stoves, production
has been increasing at an average com-
pound rate of about 15 percent per
annum. The figure for compressors
probably understates the rate of
growth in air-conditioning (other than
room-conditioners) because the smaller
compressors would be used for refrig-
erators and also for room conditioners.
Why, then, hasn’t Email shown
growth in profits over the period from
1961 to 1965? It is, of course, a fact
that from 1961 to 1962 profits increased
by 20 percent, but no growth has oc-
curred since. There may be a number
of reasons, for example:
(a) Losses in some subsidiaries may
have held back the growth in consumer
products and air-conditioning.
(b) Email may have lost some of
its share of the market, so that the
growth for the industry as a whole may
not be reflected in Email’s results.
(c) Costs may have been increasing
at a faster rate than the growth in sales
volume and because of intense compe-
tition none of these cost increases could
be passed on to the consumer.
'J’HERE are a number of possibilities
and the only one that we can be
certain of is that competition has been
intense and continues to be so. The
interim report covering the first eight
months of 1966 states that sales and
net profit showed “an encouraging in-
crease” but went on to say “. . . . rising
costs and severe competition remain
major problems to management.”
After the very marked reduction in
group net profit in the 1965 year, the
future can only be clouded. One
gains the impression from reading the
chairman’s address that the consumer
products division was subjected to in-
tense competition as well as the air-
conditioning and industrial refrigera-
tion division. It could well be that the
combination of difficult conditions in
both these divisions was sufficient to
cause the group profit to be halved.
Because the interim dividend has been
raised to 1.75 cents per share from
the 1965 1.5 cents per share, there is
every reason to believe that the full
dividend for 1966 will be at least 3.5
cents per share. To what extent this
increase in dividends will be matched
by an increase in earnings is difficult to
say, but generally dividends have always
been covered by earnngs in the past
eight years, 1961 and 1965 being the
exceptions.
There is as yet no sign that the
excessive competition is coming to an
end even the problem of excessive
trade-in allowances seems to be in-
capable of solution by the industry.
In the present climate, it is almost
impossible to see any worthwhile
growth taking place in Email’s earn-
ings per share. Regrettably, the 1965
year has meant that the stability of divi-
dends per share must be in doubt in
the future. In other companies, one
might have expected the asset back-
ing per share to support the market
price but, in Email’s case, the market
price hasn’t exceeded the net asset back-
ing since 1960. There may be some
speculative interest at today’s low price,
but we will have a better idea of the
position in about two months’ time
when the 1966 results are available.


now!!!!!!
maximum
security
right at
your
fingertips
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to the Master-Key.
A3.H
Ci
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
LOCK UP
WITH
(&c/u&o&cC
New Zealand Agent: G. D. Little Ltd., New Guinea Agents: Territorial
Wellington & Auckland Enterprises, Port Moresby
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne 569 0611 • Sydney 56 3191,
56 3186, 56 3114, 56 3166 • Brisbane
7 3047 • Canberra 4 4098 • Adelaide
721433* Perth 23 2214 • Hobart 3 3141
• Launceston 2 1441.
South African Agent: C. M. Langton &
Partners, Johannesburg
Also Agents in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rhodesia, Singapore, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong, Thailand


This little
Australian boy
is speaking to his
grandmother
in England for the
very first time.
Can you measure
the thrill in
dollars and cents?
You book the number
you want through
the Post Office.
Within minutes you are
on the phone, speaking to
your family or friends
as clearly as if
they were next door.
And to be
this close to someone
costs as little as
$7.50 to Great Britain,
$3.75 to New Zealand,
slo.Bo to Italy;
$lO.BO to the US.A.
Isn’t the thrill worth
more than that?
The Overseas
Telecommunications
Commission
(Australia)
a,*****
«
A/ -JJ
OlCj
■
fm
m
m
a
Hi
is
m
■
■
I
m
: r ;
mm
m
mm
SgK^Slfv
: r
>
: ' : V
■- >■
nHHi
! " . Q ' :
mumm mg«
>]
l§llli
<W,.
.
:
M
■
■Hi
n
%
w
■
i
>■i
/#
w
f Vi
&J
s m
I
OT 176


Share
Par
j Div.
| Year
j Week
| Fri.
1 1966
T urnover
1 Yield °/„ 1
Value| cents
ago
ago
close | H igh | Low
Syd.
| Melb.
| Div.
Earn. |
METALS
AND OILS
1
Aberfoyle
t .50
1 2
2 18
1.75| 1.68
2 60 ! 1.70
2,400
1 2,400
Ampol Exp.
.50
• 9E
1 08, 1.0E
1 55 i .85
3,80C
2,700
\
Assoc. Min.
.50
j 15
5 0C
6.00 j 6 0C
5.90! 4.7C
1.65C
! 1,300
A.O.G.
.50
2.52
1 7(
1 1 62
2 80 | 1.72
5,55C
121.900
B. H. South
.50
11
2 62
2.88
| 2 81
3 31 ! 2 2 4
20.35C
24.250: 3.9
4.7
Cons. Gold
1 00
10
4 26
| 4 05
4 34 3.9C
30.50C
! 39,700
i 2 5
4 2
C.R.A.
50
1 s
4 45
5 2E
5 32
6 64, 3.9C
25.05C
19,950
1.5
3.0
C’wlth Min.
1.00
| 7
2.241 2 75 1 2 7C
2 85| 1 9C
1.95C
1.600, 3.1
5.4
K. 1'. Scheel
.50
I 10
2 68! 2 93 2.85
2.98, 1 80
7,300
5,900
Mount Isa
.50
I 10
4.45
4 02
4 0C
4 85] 3 8£
1 27.20C
1 26,150 2 5
Mt. Morgan
1.00
i 15
2
| 3.50
| 3 23
3 43| 1.85
11,050
16,400! 6.2
10.9
Mt. Lyell
.25
4.5
1 42
1 1 55
| 1 46
1 60| 1 25
5,60C
| 13,1001 3.1
! 9 8
New B. H.
.62
i 38
5 2E
4 5C
I 4 3C
5 50 3 9C
2,65C
10.00C
1 10.5
] 12.5
North B. H.
1 00
! 25
3 56
3 8<
3.8^
4 30-i 2 35
10,60C
17.70C
6 5
10.9
Oil Search
.50
.15
.151 .17
,24| ,0£
192,70C
72,500
Renison
.50
1 15
6 96
, 7 6<
! 7 64
8 10 i 5 9C
40C
1,25C
i
Santos
.25
1 5C
! 1.80
1.82
3 00! 1 4C
3.70C
1,20C
West Min.
.50
1 10
2.61
6 46| 6 5<
7.02| 2.4<
5.90C
7.50C
1.5
1 13
Woodside
.50
1
.34
| .83| .80
1 00 . 20
16,800
21,750
INDUSTRIALS
Adams, W.
1.00
12 5
2 85
2 17
1 2.16
2.90! 1.93
| 2,450
2,100! 5 8
9.3
Adel. Steam
.50
4
.76
.711 .71
.80
| .59
3.30C
2,200 5 6
6.6
Advertiser
.50
5
2 3<
1 5S
1.57| 2 50| 1.15
| 3 2] 6.1
Allen, S.
1 00
10
2.05
1 8C
1 78| 2.121 1 56
30C
] 5 6, 8 1
Allied Mills
.50
6
1.73
1.8C
1.75! 1 95] 1.601 5,450] 1,000! 3.4 8 0
Amal. Chem.
.50
5
1. IE
.71
.71
1.601 .65| 3,5001 600
7.0; 11 5
Ampol
.50
7
.87
.65
.62
1 i o;
.51! 54,95(
53.00C
8 ]
11.7
Ansett
50
5
.81
.59
.5'
.81
.58! 23,15(
12.40C
8 5
16 0
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1 45
1 32
1.31
1. /!
1.17! 2,85C
6,10C
3 £
7.3
A.R.C.
.50
4 35
1.09
.99
.97
1 1.11
.9:
11.50C
12.80C
4 5
11 5
Assoc. Pulp
1.00
9.5
1.621 1.361 1 37
j 1.7:
1.28| 5,10C
11,800
5.8
10 5
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
6 06
6 16! 5 96
| 6 30[ 5 40j 703|
5 C
6.5
A.K. Cement
.50
5
1 4E
1.03
! 1.01| 1.621 1.00| 23,700| 21.70C
5 C
8 7
Aust. Chem.
1.00
10
2 45
1 92
1 1 92
i 2 55j 1 5C
1 3,20C
! 1.70C
! 5.2
3.3
A.C.I.
1.00
10
2 96
2 9E
i 2 9C
1 3 06 2.69
28,212
22.60C
! 3 41 6 7
Aust. Fert.
2.00
16
4.50
4 5C
] 4 5C
5 2<
] 3 75| 1,600| 1.90C
3 6
7 3
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1.30
1 85
1.86! 1.62
| 1 21
, 22.050! 18,400| 4 6j 7 8
A.P.M.
1.00
9
1.80
1 66
1.62
1 87
1.45
9,90C
32,500) 5 6
7 8
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3.35
3.80| 3 75| 3 80 3.15, 300
800! 5.3
6 0
A.U.C.
1.00
10
3.801 3 05
3 05! 4 00| 3.07
3 3
8 9
1.00
10
2 45
2 32! 2 28
2 46
| 2 08! 300) 400| 4 4
5.8
Bank N-S.W.
2.00
20
5 26
5 26
5.32
5 68
4 82| 8,4001 2,000! 3.8
6.8
.50
5
2 251 1.72
1.65
2 44; 1.55 1,400!
3 0
5 5
1.00
15
3 15
2.85
2 75, 3 201 2 25' 2,000!
5 5
11.7
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.84
1 571 1 59
1 87
1 38
15,050, 6,900
4 7
6.7
.50
6
1.12
1 25! 1 25| 1 20! .96
4,650
4.8
10.7
.50
10
2 35
1 8C
1 83
2.40
1 59
12,000
16,000
5 5
6.1
1 00
1.90
1 62| 1 60
2 05
1 35
6,200
.50
5
r64
.63! 65
. 69
56
6,200
12,500
7.7
10.8
.50
7.5
1.77
1.47
1 43
1 82
1 34
7,300
2,100
5 2
7 8
1.00
12
1 95
2.42
2 37
2 46| 1 75
17,250
7,700
5 1
7.6
B.H.P.
2.00
18.4
4.95
6 44
6 36
6 54 4 45
64,185
34,400
2 9
4.8
.50
6.25
.72
.86! .87
80
.55
1,400
27,100
/ ■ 2
15.1
1 00
10
4 05
3 90
3 92
4 20
3 40
8,650
1,200
2 6
7.6
C.U.B. “Z”
1.00
13
3.78
3 08 3 14
3.90
2 90
700
4,200
4 1
7.1
.50
7 5
2 72
2 18
2 19
2.75
2 10
16,450
7,300
3 4
7 4
.50
4 5
.78
.681 69
.80
51
3,200
4,200
6.5
11.4
1.00
17
6.35
5.06
5 801 6 50! 5 82
100
300
3 1
5.7
.50
6 25
1.35
1.701 1 63
1 63
1 23
6,100
3 8
8 8
.50
7.5
1 09
.83
.82
1.10
.82
9,100
16,300
9 1
11.2
1.00
.70
1.41
1.51
1.53
1 73 1 26
13,300
8,900
4 6
12.6
. .50
5.5
1 361 1 21
1 19
1 42
1 00
39,900
54,600
4 6
7 0
C.S.R.
1 00
12 5
3 20
2.89
2 82
3 26 2 61
26,000
4,800
4 4
8 1
C.A.G.A.
1.00
10
1 50
1 44
1 41
1 65
1 15
13,750
13,100
7.1
10.1
C.B.C.
1.00
10
2 35
2.28
2 27
2 75
1 93
6,000
4.4
7 8
C.B.A.
1.00
10
2 16
2.06
2 07 | 2.27! 1.83! 4,750
3,200[ 4.8
7.2
.50
4.5
1 35
1 40
j 32
1 5E
1.02
1,600
3,100
3.4
6.5
C.I.G.
1.00
11
2 85
2 35
2.30 3.30| 2.25| 2,700 1 7,800
4.8
6.6
.50
.45
.37
.39
.52 .25
46,600
14,000!
11.0
.50
10
3 30
2 60
2 60
3.40
2.25
2,100
3.8
9.3
1 00
8
1 38
1.70
1 80
1 60
1.28
5,500
15,800
4.4
8.1
1.00
4
.74
.49
,48| .75
,42| 2,500
1,900
8.3
14.2
Crane, G. E.
1.00
12.5
4 50
5 54
5.50
5 22
1 4 10! 800!
2.5
6.6
2.00
20
6.50
5.14 5.00
6.25
4 56
3.2
6.8
.50
5
.75
.84
84
.86
.61
11,800
16,000
6.0
12,0
Cyclone
1 00
10
1.30
1 41
1.44
1.48
1.04! 2,300! 15,100
6.9
9.6
2 50
25 5
5.00
4 70
4 70
5 10, 4 40
1,600
6.4
8.9
D.'F.C.
2 00
23
6.55
6 00] 6 30
6 55
6 00
100
3 8!
8 7
Drug Houses
1 00
10
1.78
1 77! 1 76
1 93
1.55
10,250
15,800
5.7
8 6
Dunlop
1.00
8
1 42
1 44
1.40
1.65! 1 .,14
22,000
18,700
5.7
5.9
E.M.I.
.50
8
2.10
2 31
2.31
2 15
1.75
2,450
500
3.5
8.9
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
18
2 18
2 43
2 41
2 74! 2.00
10,400
17,600
7.5
8.8
Elders, G. M.
1.00
10
2 25
2 53
2 54
2 57
2.01
14,950
7,600
3.9
8.7
Elec. •"B”
1.00
7
1 00
,50| 52
i: oo
.36
6,600
13,000
13.5
16.7
.50
3
.48
.49
48
51
36
23,100;
10,2001
6 3
6 5
E.S.A.
2 50
14.69
5.70
5.20
5 20
6 00
5.10
250
4 8|
9 7
.50
6.25
1.38
1.12
1.10
1.40
1.05
800
5.7
6.6
.50
8 5
2 62
2.63
2.58
2.80
2.07
4,800
3,700
3.3
4.8
1 00
6
1.96
1.55
1.50
2.10
1.36
2,200
4.0
.50
5
.65
.55
.54
.70
.45
27,800
28,000
9.3
10.5
.50
6
1.38
1.60
1.56
1.51
1.20
2,800
5,400
3.8
5.6
1 00
17.5
3.70
3 80
3.80
3.72
2 42
800
4 6
7.4
.50
4
.60
.60
.60
.61
.40
2,500
14,200-
6.7
10.0
2.00
12
1.10
1 40
1.40
1 38
.94
9,300
5.000]
8 6
17.3
.50
10
2 70
2.08
2 08
2.70
2.00
1,550
2,000
4.8
6 6
.50
4 5
.82
.50
P0
88
67
3.5001
400!
5 6 1
10 6
50
6 25
1 87
1 58
i 63;
1.91
1 28
9,650
5,000j
3 8
6 6
1 00
10
5 02
5.14
4 97
5 20
4 401
550
1,500
2 0
7 7
50
.44
21
21
58
.16
29,300
9,900
Herald, W. T.
.50
12 5
5.20
4.46
4 31,
5 23
3^801
4,300
14,700
3 5
4 5
.50
.31
37
35
.39
■ 20
27.600
8,700
10.0
1.00
12 5
2 80
2 88
2 90
2 90
2.10
2,100
5,100:
1.7
.50
5
1 00
.98
.88;
1.71
.81
1,900
10,800
5.7
14.1
.50
6 j
.84
.94
.94
.94
.75
5,950
21,900
6.4
10 4
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
2 00
15
4 14-
3 73
1.92,
4 32
3.40
9,650
11,300!
3.9
5 2
50
6.25!
1.26
.88
. S3 j
1.45
.82
4,200
2,400]
7.5
9.2
.50
6.75
1 63
1.39
1.34]
1.63
1.19
22,150
13,100
5 0
8.7
1.00
12
4 05
3.70
3.50!
4.31
3.40
5,650
4,000
3.4
7.9
.50
.32
.20
• 18]
.38
.13
2,500
8,900
.50
7 5
1.96
1.88
1.89]
2.08
1.85
3,250
2,000]
4.0
9.0
.50
12.5
1.28
1 45
1.45
1.50
1.15,
5001
J
8.6!
9.4
.50
5
1.06
88
86
1.25
.70
2,700|
5.8|
10.7
.50
8
2.38-
2 60
2 60
2 70
2 24
5,850!
3 1|
6 9
1.00
11
2.39
2 57
2.5°
2 63)
2 14
3,200
1,700;
4 3|
7.2
M.L.C.
2.00
31.6
7.92
8.30
8 30 [
8 40
7 61
1,875
1,300!
3 8;
3.8
1.00
8 i
1.40
1 17
1 191
1 60
1 10
450!
500|
6.7|
7.3
.50 '
7.5 |
1.52
1.13
1 03!
1 55
95
33,950!
2,600)
7.3!
10.0
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
2 041
2.18
2 16
2 09!
1 82
10,800]
2,700
2 4|
5 1
Share
Par | Div.
Value| cents
Year
ago
Week
ago
Fri.
close
1966
High | Low
| Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
I Yield %
| Div.|Earn.
M. Nickless
i
.00
12
5
3
001 2
821 2
80
3
20 j
2
22
4.2501 4.3001 4
5
5
Mcllwraith, J.
50
7
5
1
47
i
.15| 1
15
1
50'
99
3*150
4,500
4
•l| 7
McPherson
2
00
16
6
3
90
3
34
3
35
4
OR
3
25
800
5,300
5
0j 8
MiMaquin
1
00
14
OC
2
721 2
78
3
1 |
2
52
100
oi. k
Miller, R. W.
1
00
10
2
05
1
66
1
62
2
071
1
43
4,900 3,500
6
.2
13
5
M inster
1
.00
20
4
35
2
/ 5
2
65
3
05
2
15
700 400
7
5
12
Morris, Philip
2
00
24
7
36
/
60
7
70
7
60,
6
20
1,300
1,700
3
4
15
5
Myer
.50
8
75
3
50
3
05
3
08
3
56
2
77
15,750
14,700
2
8
Myttons
50
6
1
52
1
41
1
43
1
63!
1
30
300
11,850
4
2
7
3
N.Z. Forest
1
25
9
56
2
/ 0
2
48
2
48
3
0 31
2
06
4,400
2,950
3
8
in
Nat. Bank
1
00
10
2
08
2
02
2
02
2
191
1
75
5,850
10,550
5
01 6
5
Nat. Consol.
50
10
2
33
2
44
2
43
2
45
2
17
6,850
8,700
4
lj 8
Nat. Dairy
2
.25
26
7
42
00
35
50
35
50
42
001
32
no
20
3
51 6
News
50
5
1
/6
1
70
1
70
1
821
1
36
4,500
1,700
2
9
6
N.Z. Ins.
1
25
11
5
2
80
2
75
2
70
2
95
60
1,720
5
4
7
9
Nylex
50
5
/9
80
7 7
83|
59
1,100
11,550
6
5
8
3
Olympic
50
5
77
69
69
791
61
3,450
21,650
!
7
2
11
1
Optical
1
00
15
4
65
4
55
4
55
4
701
4
11
2,850
3
5
6
.9
Overseas
50
6
1
11
1
34
1
30
1
25!
98
21,200
18,400
4
6
9
0
P.G.H.
.50
8
1
50
1
18
i
16
1
601
1
05
2,700
6
9
9
3
Penfolds
50
6
25
1
85
1
79
i
85
2
03
1
50
5,500
3
4 5
.2
Peko
50
8
1
98
2
41
2
38
2
60;
1
85
16,450
2,500
3
8
6
9
Perp. Trustees
2
00
18
3
/O
3
50
3
50
3
90 j
2
53
5
11 6
.0
Petersville
20
2
5
60
4/
46
661
47
18,650
81,000
5
4
8
.3
Peters, W.A.
.50
6
25
1
89
1
55
i
55
1
83|
1
50
100
4
oi 7
7
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6
25
1
50
1
171 1
16
1
621
1
12
12,450
11,400
5
4
10
6
Prestige
50
'6
25
1
02
76
75
1
05]
72
1,100
600
8
3
16
3
Provincial Td.
.50
5
5
1
10
1
02
98
1
14
90
700
5
6
9
5
Pye
50
5
1
50
1
02
95
1
55]
90
1,000
200
5
3
10
1
Q’land Can
50
5
1
12
96
96
1
1 31
87
400
5
2
8
3
Q’land Cement
2
.00
20
7
45
7
70
7
70
7
95|
7
00
2
9
6
0
Q’land Ins.
1
00
12
5
4
50
4
15
4
00
4
50!
4
00
1,100
3
1
7
8
Q’land Press
1
00
16
5
54
4
98
4
94
5
54'
4
55
2,000
3
0
6
0
Reed
50
/
1
60
i
65
1
63
1
74
1
45
1,000
4
3
7
7
Repco
50
7
5
1
94
2
08
2
07
2
24!
95
6,300
16,600
3
6
5
9
Rocla
50
7
1
90
1
86
1
86
2
14,
1
71
1,200
7,150
3
8
5
6
Rothmans
1
00
12
2
85
2
05
1
90
3
151
2
38
18,100
11,030
6
3
17
6
S. A. Rubber
50
5
62
1
18
9/
92
1
25
89
2,700
700
6
i
7
9
Schweppes
60
5
5
1
85
1
65
1
70
1
85!
1
45
1,200
1,500
3
21 5
9
Shelleys
50
7
5
2
40
2
95
2
95
3
00,
2
30
2
5
8
1
Simpson Pope
50
35
30
27
461
20
2,500
1,300
1
7
Sleigh, H. C.
50
5
/I
561
5/
72
55
25,200
36,700
8
8
9
5
Smith, How.
1
00
10
2.50'
2
67
2
64
2
78|
2
38
5,500
1,900
3
8
6
5
Softwood
1
00
10
3
20
2
45
2
44, 3
25!
2
07! 6,7001 800
4
i
12
8
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1
25
14
16
3
/8
3
3/
3
40
3
85!
2
41
4,100
4
9
8
5
Steamships
50
6
66
9/
1
02
1
02
1
11
88
4,200
2,100
6
6
10
0
Stedmans, J.
50
9
1
81
1
95
1
83
2
201
1
60
300
4
1
6
6
Swan Brew.
50
6
5
2
38
2
39
2
35
2
75
2
21
2,300
4,150
2
8
3
8
T arax
50
6
1
1/
1
07
1
09
1
35|
1
00
2.100
400
5
5
10
0
T aubmans
50
8
1
10'
1
03
1
20
1
18
76
13,254|
1,300
8
0!
9.
3
TV Corp.
1
00
20
2
30
3
50
3
50
3
50
2
OR
1,300
100
5
7
6
6
Thiess
50
8
70
1
36
1
31
1
20
63
26,350
3
i
13
5
T ooheys
50
4
35
1
18
1
01
1
00
1
21
96
32,650
4
4
6
7
Tooth
1
00
15.
8
5
16
4
86
4
90
5
70
4
90
16,450
2,200
3
2
4
6
Union Carb.
1.
00 i
14
3.
65
4.
75 i
4
70
4
401
3
38
800
1,400
3
0
6
1
U. E. Box
63
5
84
1
45
i
18
i
11
1
48!
1
05
1,200
5
2
12
5
Walker, F. J.
1
00
12
5
1
52
i
68
i
68
1
56|
1
00
2,700
7
4
9
6
Waltons
50
b
25
94
91
8/
1
23
84
46,250)
5,500|
7
2|
10.
4
Webster, A. G
50
7
5
1
27
i
35
1
10
1
50
1
20
1,200
5
8
11
8
Woolworths
50
6
1
1
42
i
29
i
27
1
44!
1
16
85,250
27,200
4
7
6
5
SHARE PRICE INDEXES
| SYDNEY
1 MELBOURNE
Classification
1 Week
1 ago
| Friday
| last
| Week
[ ago
1 Friday
1 Jast
All ordinaries . .
331.60
| 329.18 |
107.09
, 106.25
50 leaders . . .
|
112.85
i 112.08
Banks ....
1 168.65
167.76
111.39
| 110.71
Other finance . .
i 533.13
1 536.65 !
73.44
| 73.96
Pastoral . . . .
| 238.02
| 238.50
129.63
| 130.09
Transport . . . .
449.37
446.39
91.41
91.02
Retail, merchants
338.17
332.99
92.46
| 91.77
Services ....
r
! 1
49.53
| 49.23
Foods ....
1 169.04
| 166.81
100.79
j 99.76
Textiles ....
i 181.07
| 179.94 [
69.98
73.21
Chemicals .
333.57
1 331.75 i
82.80
82.60
Electricals
J 421.08
| 419.16
62.31
I 62.02
Paper ....
I
1 652.56 "'i
107.69 1
106.75
Build ng . . . .
j 658.47
90.66
90.05
Automotive . . .
i 748.82
i 750.60 |
77.01
i 75.19
Fuel power . . .
161.39
159.85
Steel, engineering .
. j 498.98
| 495.08
126.43
124.49
Non-ferrous . . .
11303.74
11305.48 |
228.23
226.03
] OIL |
SUGAR
1 Week
[ ago
1 .Friday |
1 last |
Week
ago
| Friday
| last
Brisbane
Melbourne .
1 142.46
123.10
| 139.88
118.80
105.47 |
106.68
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
1 SYDNEY
1 MELBOURNE
J i N D USTR1A L|
MINING
11 N D UST R1 A L|
MINING
| Sales 1 Value I
| Vol. ' S |
| 1000 1 1000 |
Sales | Value
Vol. | S
1000 | 1000
1 Sales | Value I
1 Vol. | S |
| 1000 | 1000 |
Sales |
Vol. |
10Q0 1
Value
S
1000
Week before , 3686 j 3733 |
Week to Friday I 2810 3716
1279 | 1148
1572 | 1205
2248 | 4236
| 2422 i 3508 I
995 |
958 i
1045
1105
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
| London I
| “Financial Times” |
New
Dow
York | Tokyo
Jones |D. Jones
| Inds.
| Secs. |
Gold |
Inds.
| Rails | Avge.
| 313.4
1 78.31|
51.9 |
786.411
205.1611444 35
I 374.2
1 79.431
65.2 'I
995.151
271.7211588.73
1 286.7
1 72.77|
49.3 |
744.321
184.3411376.49
Month ago
Week ago
Latest
| 320.4
78 65 j
51.5 |
846.44!
225.6911441.97
| 318 4
80.74
49.9 |
855.731
227.93|1488 78
| 317 1
80 65!
49.7 |
850.84i
230 34! 1468 15
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
A slowish drift among most industrial sections has continued,
although some slight arrest became visible toward the week's
close. BHP did not help the overall situation by easing a net
8 cents to $6.36. Henry Jones also met pressure and dropped
back 20 cents to $3.50. Investors naturally paid attention to
the margarine verdict, sending Marrickville Holdings to $l.O3 —
a 10-cent fall. Rothmans was hit a further 15 cents, finishing at
$1.90. Neither Repco nor Humes were much disturbed by their
respective reports. Miners look very uncertain; Mount Morgan
and New Broken Hill effected prominent retreats.
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend .. 6.26
MELBOURNE
dividend 5.36
earnings 8.33
LONDON ( F.T.)
d vidend 6 02
earnings 7.63
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3.30
earnings 6.29
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short . . . . 4 54 4 54
Medium .... 4 92 4 92
Long 5.24 5.24


New Issue, January , 1967
CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK • UNSECURED NOTES
INTEREST
UP TO
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is now available from:
Any branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Any member of A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
CC7.42.X2b
MINING
Looking for Oil in Papua
WITH at least three wells and a
considerable amount of survey
work planned in Papua and New
Guinea during 1967, petroleum ex-
ploration in the Territory is at its
highest level since 1958, the year of
the oil strike at Puri. After the dis-
appointment of Rough Range No. 1 in
Western Australia in 1953, the focus
of oil fever switched to Papua following
a number of significant gas strikes
between 1953 and 1960 at Omati, Kuru,
Barikewa, Bwata, and lehi, together
with the oil flow at Puri.
However, like Rough Range No. 1,
testing of the Puri well proved dis-
appointing. The initial flow rate of 1600
barrels per day was not sustained be-
cause of the lack of suitable local
reservoir conditions. The gas flows,
though large by mainland Australian
standards, were in isolated locations in
Central Papua and, for the time being,
could not be considered an economic
proposition.
Interest in the area waned as results
of wells drilled between 1962 and 1965
proved disappointing. Statistics on drill-
ing activity illustrate this point. Up to
the end of 1955, 22 wells had been
drilled in the Territory and in the next
five years a further nineteen wells were
drilled. However, since 1961, only four
wells have been drilled none of
these was in 1966.
The only listed Australian company
directly engaged in petroleum explora-
tion in Papua is Oil Search Ltd. It was
Oil Search and its overseas partners in
of nearly thirty years’ standing,
BP and Mobil Oil, who struck oil at
Puri and encountered the significant
gas flows in Central Papua between
1953 and 1960. During this period, the
price of Oil Search shares reached
peaks of $3.45 in 1954 and $2.60 in
1958, then gradually declined to a low
point of 9 cents at the end of 1966.
Even after allowing for the fact that
the issued capital has almost trebled
since 1958, the fall has been severe.
However, since the end of December,
1966, the price has moved up to around
18 cents, indicating a renewed interest
in oil exploration in Papua.
'J'HE company is currently preparing
to drill its first well since 1965 at
Muabu No. 1 in the delta region of
the Papuan Basin. Site preparations
have been completed and the well is
expected to spud in about the middle
of March, with a scheduled depth of
10,000 to 12,000 feet. The well is
designed to test a structure indicated
by previous seismic work. Its prospects
are regarded as very favorable by the
company’s consultants in view of its
location between the Puri oil well and
another well, Wana No. 1, where a
gaseous brine flow of 4000 cubic feet
per hour was obtained.
The company and its partners are
also investigating the possibility of
drilling a further well at Iviri where,
despite the negative results of the No.
1 well drilled in 1965, the prospects
of an oil accumulation in the structure
were not entirely disproved. Additional
seismic surveys are planned for Central
Papuan areas, together with geological
surveys in areas of north-western
Papua.
Oil Search’s interest in tenements
covering nearly 25,000 square miles in
Papua are held through the operating
companies, Australasian Petroleum Co.
Pty. Ltd and Island Exploration Co.
Pty. Ltd. Although BP and Mobil Oil
previously held the major portion of
the capital of these companies, Oil
Search has increased its interest to 71
percent by spending some $4.8 million
on exploration between 1961 and 1966.
The remaining 29 percent is held by
BP and Mobil Oil in approximately
equal proportions.
Although the partners’ interests in
the known gas areas will be “frozen,”
Oil Search has the option to increase
its interest in other areas to 80 per-
cent. In order to conserve funds and
to hasten the tempo of exploration,
Oil Search directors have been negotia-
ting with a number of international
companies to secure farmouts in these
other areas. At the annual meeting,
last December, the chairman said he
hoped to announce a new farmout
arrangement in the near future.
Although efforts to exploit the gas
resources in the Barikewa, lehi,
Bwata, and Kuru structures have so
far been unsuccessful, directors are
confident that these can be utilised in
the future. No gas reserve figures are
available, but flow rates obtained dur-
ing testing give some idea of their
size. Indicated open flow potentials of
135 million, 108 million, and 43 million
cubic feet per day were recorded at
lehi No. 1, Barikewa No. 1, and
Bwaia No. 1 respectively, while Kuru
No. 1, which blew out, flowed gas in
excess of 100 million cubic feet per
day before it was sealed five months
later.
Incidentally, it is worth noting that,
in the event of the profitable exploita-
tion of these gas resources, or the dis-
covery of oil in commercial quan-
tities, profits derived by the operating
companies, Australasian Petroleum Co.
up to approximately $42 million and
Island Exploration Co. up to approxi-
mately $22 million, being exploration
expenditure already incurred by those
companies, will not be subject to Aus-
tralian tax.
T H£ oil prospects of Papua are now
attracting the interest of a number
of other overseas-controlled concerns.
One such group is a partnership be-
tween Phillips Australian Oil Co. (25
percent), Sunray DX Oil Co. (25 per-
cent), Canadian Superior (30 percent),
and Anacapa Corporation (20 percent),
which holds three permits in Papua
totalling over 20,000 square miles. Two
permits (39 and 42) are offshore areas
covering most of the Gulf of Papua,
while the third (36) adjoins the Indo-
nesian border in south-western Papua
and includes a small offshore strip
near the coast.
The group is currently evaluating
the results of marine seismic surveys
conducted in the Gulf of Papua before
commencing a two-year offshore drilling


CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE
STOCK
"7-10 years
8%
5-6 years
71%
4 years
7^%
1 year
6^%
OTHER CURRENCIES
3 months .. .. 5V4%
6 months .. .. 5 1 /2%
9 months .. .. 6%
2 years 6 3 A%
3 years 7!/4%
Unsecured Notes also available
Applications can only be accepted
on the form attached to the
PROSPECTUS
AVAILABLE FROM:
• Any of the Underwriters—
Horden Utz & Bode, Sydney.
Wallace H. Smith & Co.,
Melbourne.
Wilson & Co., Brisbane.
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any Waltons store or office.
• Any Branch of The National
Bank of Australasia Limited.
• Any Branch of The Common-
wealth Trading Bank of
Australia.
• FNCB-Waltons Corporation
Limited, Box 40 26 G.P.O.
Sydney.
• OR PHONE: 2-0628.
program in about August or September
this year. A Global Marine rig to be
used for this purpose is now under
construction in Texas.
Another company, Nakoro Petroleum
Corporation, was due to spud in its
Rarako Creek No. 1 well in the
Papuan basin at the end of January.
Nakoro is drilling the well to earn a
50 percent interest in a small block
within Permit 22. This permit covers
a total area of 8740 square miles and
extends from near Port Moresby along
the coast to Central Papua and inland
to the New Guinea border. Marathon
Petroleum Australia Ltd. and Con-
tinental Oil Co. of Australia Ltd., sub-
sidiaries of U.S. companies, are the
joint tenement holders, the Associated
Oil group holding an overriding royalty
interest. Marathon and Continental
jointly hold another permit in central-
western Papua, while Continental holds
three blocks in northern New Guinea
between Madang and the Indonesian
border.
In the same area of New Guinea,
a 10,000-;quare-mile permit is held by
Australian Aquitaine Petroleum Pty.
Ltd., a subsidiary of Societe Nationale
des Petroles d’Aquitaine, of France. In
December, 1966, the Australian Govern-
ment granted permission for Japex, a
Japanese oil exploration company, to
join Australian Aquitaine in exploring
the tenement.
COMMODITIES
Rutile Loses Some Ground
PRICES for Australia’s rutile
(titanium ore) have lost a little
ground in recent months, evidently
partly in reaction to the previous strong
rise. The new Sierra Leone source,
which several months ago began build-
ing up production to its initial 100,000
tons a year target, has also had the
expected mild dampening effect on
markets.
The new supplies are quite substan-
tial in relation to Australia’s 250,000- to
300,000-tons-a-year production, which
represents over 90 percent of world out-
put, excluding Sierra Leone. However,
any market upsets wall only be slight
and probably short-lived, for finding the
metal to meet demand is the main
problem now.
Last week a ton was
quoted in London for standard grade
rutile. This compared with £stg.44-45
late last year and a peak of around
£stg.46 set early last year.
The situation is put in perspective by
consideration of the concern expressed
by a local producer late in 1965 that
prices might be going too high. The
market was slightly below present levels
at the time. Mr. S. L. Segal, of Con-
solidated Gold Fields’ Wyong Minerals
subsidiary, then forecast that prices
could fall, which would be a healthy
development from the point of view of
continuing consumption growth, he
added.
THE optimism expressed here about
the medium to long-term outlook
for wolfram prices is supported
by a New York industry expert, Mr. J.
E. de Sousa, president of Metallium
Corporation, who says that prices in
the short term are vulnerable to tem-
porary weakness, but that the longer-
term outlook is bullish.
At present the twin tungsten ores,
wolfram and scheelite (both produced
in Australia), sell at around 355/- stg.
a unit (22.41 b. of 100 percent ore).
This is just below the level at which
U.S. stockpile metal, sold at $U.5.43
a unit, would be attracted on to the
world market.
It is a very profitable price for the
main local producer, King Island
Scheelite (1947) Ltd., which received
an average of 280/- a unit in its latest
financial year and 190/- in 1964-65.
The main chance for a rise in the
near future would probably be a move
by the U.S. stockpile controller to
restrict releases or raise the sale price
so as to inhibit exports. Although
there is speculation along these lines, it
is far from certain that any action will
in fact be taken.
Mr. de Sousa, in his review of the
metal’s position, points to the uncer-
tainty on Chinese supplies, and the
temporary loss of Canadian production
through fire damage, as well as the
U.S. releases. He believes that wolfram
supplies are likely to remain difficult for
the next three to five years. The solution
to the problem, he feels, is most likely
to come from production increases
not an easy move given the nature of
known deposits.
WOOL markets have in recent
weeks been making some
recovery from several months’
decline. The fall had reflected mainly
higher interest rates (which lift the
cost of holding wool stocks) and fears
of economic problems—along with the
reality of economic problems in the
U.K.
Lower interest rates, and the reach-
ing of bottom limits for stocks, have
seen increased buying recently. But last
week wool’s basic problems were again
highlighted. ICI in the U.K. has again
cut nylon prices—by around 15 per-
cent. So the margin in wool’s favor in
some fields, notably carpets, is now
very fine. Pressure from synthetics will
be of growing concern in the wool
industry. The “ceiling” on wool prices
has come lower—while costs of pro-
duction continue to climb.


Fimnce
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
71
0,
0
PER ANNUM 8 AND 10 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Ik
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
7
0
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
Qk
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
6:
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
s!x
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
ssz
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
4lr.
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted
only on the printed form referred to
in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and
forms of application should be obtained from:
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co.,
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
NDN. 2
MAN ON THE LAND
Threats to the Family Farm
WHILE possibly most farmers want
more subsidies, there are many
who do not. And one of the
more dangerous generalisations in farm-
ing in Australia is to equate opposition
to subsidies with hidebound conser-
vatism. Admitting that there is a
degree of conservatism present does not
detract from the basic tenet that sub-
sidies, if unchecked, lead eventually to
production and acreage controls.
These controls, familiar in Europe
and the United States, have not yet
arrived in Australia. They may not be
far off. Already there is talk of pro-
duction controls, and guidance, in
poultry farming. Dairying, through the
wholemilk contract system, already has
a mild form of control and unquestion-
ably fear of more controls is one of the
reasons dairyfarmers would like marg-
arine to just go away. If quotas for
margarine are ever lifted, the dairy
industry could probably stand the com-
petition, but only by more overall
direction, guidance, and rationalisation.
To an even greater extent than at
present the farmer would be told what
to produce and how much to produce.
If the wheat surplus is as great as
some people, including stabilisation
critic E. J. Donath, predict (perhaps
300 m. bushels surplus) then voices will
be raised urging control of acreage. The
next logical step, after controls, is pro-
duction targets whereby the farmer who
fails to meet his target forfeits his
property. The threat of this dire step
is greatest in the case of the family
farm. The giant corporation farm has
the resources to survive and even
prosper.
It is for this reason that not all small
farmers, as generally supposed, favor
subsidies. They take them because they
need them; they do not like it, because
they know what can come.
r fHE insularity, even suspicion, and
undoubted conservatism of many
farmers often has a sound basis. Their
antipathy toward academic opinion
arises in some instances from the openly
declared support for production targets
emanating from some of our university
people. This kulak-like isolation of
many small to medium farmers is ag-
gravated by existing land values in
Australia. Too many properties have
an inflated value.
The farmer finds it hard to make a
decent return on the capital he has
invested. The prospective family-farm
buyer, if he has the money, looks
around and often reasons, correctly,
that he can do better putting his money
to some other use. Thus consolidation,
a pretty word for takeover, of proper-
ties continues.
The following properties, for
example, are listed for sale:
Gippsland area, Victoria, 1000 acres,
carrying 4000 sheep and some cattle,
$170,000; 1500 acres, carrying 7000
sheep, $210,000.
Northern N.S.W., 2560 acres, mainly
wheat, $128,000; 5000 acres, carrying
5000 sheep, $200,000.
Riverina, 2188 acres, carrying 2000
sheep, 150 cattle, 400 acres wheat,
$70,000; 2900 acres, 800 acres irriga-
tion, $300,000.
Western Australia, 11,500 acres, car-
rying 14,000 sheep and 1000 cattle,
$650,000; 2150 acres, carrying 3600
sheep and 200 cattle, $130,000.
All these are bare (without stock)
and are well-developed, although, natu-
rally, there would be tremendous vari-
ation. None are enormous properties.
There are any number these days which
could not be bought under $1 million.
Obviously there are very few people


EASE
... Of operation. If you understand these
symbols: H — X -f- = you already know
the Canola 161. This fully-transistorized
electronic calculator begins to solve your
problem even as you feed in data. No
time wasted. EASE ... of operation.
Canola 161 is fast, really fast... 1/100th
of a second for a 16-digit calculation.
There are no moving parts to break
down, no “warm-up” period- required.
The calculator is quiet... transistors
don’t make noises. Neither does the 22-
button, feather touch keyboard. EASE
... of operation.
Versatility is another feature. Addition,
subtraction, multiplication, division or
a combination of all these procedures
can be processed. And there’s an auto-
matic precheck at each stage. No small
poorly lit figures on this calculator. Eye-
strain banished. EASE ... of operation.
Use the coupon opposite if you would
like more information. No obligation
of course.
Swift and Bleakley,
Business Equipment Division,
149 Milton Street,
Ashfield, N.S.W.
Please send me more information about the Canola 161.
Name .
Firm
Address
Phone
City State
71-0711 (Sydney)
Canon (Brisbane) 5-3726 (Melbourne) 67-5540


i &
xi
v { \ \i
X !
f/>
-■2^o
> '
i\ 'k >e»
u;.
spr
feg# •
X xX
> /
.— -~
'■ / .<4
,/
,-\SS
S?.s
-q' {
m. <*s *ss
!i
* f 'V
X
&If (?■ ’.
s»x * ..Vt^X
\\ l item*
sSgx-v v 4/,
Hfcf '*** 'xOvi > ... 1/
■ /O'
///mm
(ft 'S*
idT. ,'f
rY /<jS
;> ]V
.-asxrC )'xXy
.Li/ „:.-//\
a 5 1 W'j.
Mr. industry
in th e
uatr° bE 4
VAUJPfJ
VICTOR'^
there are
GIRL*
galorjL
m
The over-abundance of female labour, from school-leavers to
housewives in all age groups, has created a beneficial situa-
tion for those industries employing females.
Additionally, the low turnover and low absenteeism figures
associated with all Latrobe Valley industry mean full pro-
duction and a minimum of training time.
For those companies' requiring female labour, plus every
other normal need of industry—power (electricity, gas, natural
decentralisation
gas soon, or coal), transport,
low-cost land, housing, financial
can solve your
assistance for establishment, the
choice of a dozen superb locations,
female work
a wide range of raw materials, indus-
trial land from $lOO an acre, ready-
force problem!
built factories, roads (all of which
may be subsidised or concessions
granted on a State Government and/or local government
basis), the situation has never been more advantageous!
Explore the potential of the Latrobe Valley now! Contact the
Division of State Development, Premier’s Department, Treasury
Place, Melbourne (telephone 651-6395) for facts and figures,
or to arrange a personal inspection of the Latrobe Valley at
a convenient time!
AMS 7 4 5
companies wise decentralise
in the LATROBE VALLEY of
VIGOROUS VICTORIA!
i


NOW OPEN!
THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD LOAN
I
D
FOR
10 OR IS
YEARS
FOR 7 YEARS
INVEST AT THE NEW, HIGHER INTEREST RATE WITH CONFIDENCE.
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT.
Highest Interest. The new, long-term rate is most attractive and
the highest available since 1962.
Absolute Security. The New South Wales Government uncondition-
ally guarantees interest payments and full repayment of principal at
maturity. In addition, the Loan is secured on the Board’s annual revenue,
estimated at $62,000,000 for 1966/67.
Cash Applications accepted in full or by instalments.
Conversion. Holders of 5 1 / 4% securities in Loan No. 175 —maturing
on Ist June, 1967 —are invited to convert to the new Loan.
Opportunity for Trustees. The Loan is an Authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Tax Concessions. An approved security for Trustees of Pension and
Superannuation Funds who wish to qualify for Taxation Concessions.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited; Commercial Bank-
ing Company of Sydney Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited; The National Bank of Australasia Limited; Rural Bank of
New South Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the Board’s offices.
For Prospectus and further details, ’phone 2-0648 in Sydney, or 2-5391 in Wollongong
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
29.896
indeed who can pay $1 million for a big
grazing property. How many can pay
the money asked for the properties we
have just listed? Not too many.
If private family ownership of farm-
land is to continue, then it is axiomatic
that there must be healthy trade in
property as it becomes available
(through death or choice), with people
able to do the farming able to buy.
This means young people. By and large,
the only people able to buy properties
in Australia today are large corpor-
ations (often based overseas), success-
ful business or professional men with
a “taxation problem,” or already estab-
lished large farmers.
If the family farm is to disappear it
would be appropriate, we believe, if
people were asked if this really is what
they want. Some people do, we know
that, all right, but we have a feeling that
perhaps a majority dislike the idea even
though they do not know how to pre-
vent the trend. We do not know, either
(we hasten to add), how to prevent it.
We do know, however, that economic
values are not the only values.
Before we either unwittingly, or de-
liberately, throw family farm owner-
ship over for something else, we should
look at some of the non-economic
values. It has been a foundation of our
way of life, a contributor to stability,
law and order, and it has given people
roots. Our argument with those who
oppose it, on grounds of economic ef-
ficiency, is that they tend to overlook
these things entirely.
J i ET it be quite clear that not all the
people who would like to see the
family farm disappear are Communists.
Far from it. We think of the Henry
George League, for example, which is
still active in municipal affairs in Vic-
toria and, through the Good Govern-
ment Association, in N.S.W. Although
this group would appear to attract
some bandwagonners who are more
concerned with working off grudges
than obtaining reform, the basis of the
theory would appear to be that land,
like air and water, should be free to all
mankind. A noble theory; but how it is
to be obtained without depriving a
great many ordinary people of their
hard-earned rights in property is not
made clear.
There is one trendy just discernable,
which offers hope, we feel. Every now
and then, tucked in between the adver-
tisements for properties costing (not
always) more than they are worth, are
advertisements for leasing arrange-
ments. This is not to be confused with
share farming, which is a different
thing altogether. Leasing, while not a
perfect answer, does appear to be a
way of infusing new blood in farming.
It is a way to get a start for those with
initiative and determination, and offers
rewards not usually forthcoming in
working for somebody else. In the U.S.,
since the Johnson cutback in subsidies,
there has been a noticeable upsurge in
leasing. It seems too early to evaluate it
(and it is not really new, either). It is
interesting, nevertheless.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Applications for Debentures accepted only on the form
referred to in and attached to the printed prospectus
which is available from:
JOINT UNDERWRITERS: A.B.S. White & Co., 82 Pitt St.,
Sydney; Pring, Dean & Co., 20 O’Connell St., Sydney (Members
of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited).
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
8-12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tel. 27-9331
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCHES
NI-VW
AGRISEARCH
There's Money in Softwoods
“TJLANT pine trees for profit” could
become the new catchcry. Mr.
K. J. Simfendorfer, of the Forests
Commission of Victoria, is among the
latest advocates. He had calculations
to show that the net returns per acre
from softwood forest established on
marginal land in Victoria range as
high as six times the profit that can
be gained from agriculture. If such
dividends are possible' in Victoria - , even
higher profits could reasonably be
expected from pine production in
several other regions throughout the
southern half of the continent.
What is more, future prospects look
even brighter. On present indications,
the home demand for soft timbers must
rise disproportionately to the rate of
afforestation, and the overseas markets
would seem to be insatiable.
New China in the years ahead could
become an avid consumer of our soft-
woods, just as she has of our wheat.
According to Mr. W. W. G. Travers,
New Zealand Trade Commissioner for
Timber, China’s existing forests will be
pretty well denuded in 30 years’ time.
He says that by the end of the century,
with her population topping 1500
million people, China will need a mini-
mum of 17,655 million cubic feet of
timber a year for industrial use alone.
He describes this projected figure as
“beyond our comprehension.”
Though China has, by our scale of
doing things, immense afforestation
projects in hand, they can provide only
a few percent of her future require-
ments. Moreover, unlike the wheat
marketing situation, we can choose not
to put all our softwoods in New China’s
basket. Asia generally has one-third
of the world’s population but only 15
percent of the world’s timber resources,
And this relatively poor natural endow-
ment is worsened by the comparative
inaccessibility of much of it and uneven
distribution,
On the other side of the world, the
U.S.A. finds she will have to import
more and more. (The “Great Society”
seems to be built on paper.) Many
parts of Europe are pleading for more
pinewoods already, and even the Rus-
sian planners aTe concerned because
they have realised recently that they
have been cutting into their large
resources at a greater rate than they
had allowed for. Back home here, at
the present rate of pine planting by
both private and public interests, we
will have increased our resources only
about five percent by the end of the
century.
The aim of our Federal and State
Governments now is to dispel the
ancient twin notions that forestry is
an extensive form of land use and
that it should be conducted more or
less solely on Crown lands. Accord-
ingly, Mr. Simfendorfer has pointed
out that pine culture makes work for
one man on each 60 to 70 acres. If
mill hands and other labor needed dur-
ing later stages of processing are added,
then every 30 to 35 acres of softwood
plantation afford a man permanent
employment. The figure quoted above,
relating to profits, costs plantation
labor but does not include mill labor.
Softwood production is, therefore, a
more intensive form of land-use than
most types of agriculture that can be
pursued on marginal land. Naturally,
maximum labor demand would not be
reached until some years after the first
plantings. However, even in the first
few years the employment ratio is one
man to every 100 to 120 acres. In
relatively small-scale private schemes,
as in public reafforestation projects, the
labor demand can be smoothed out
by adopting a planned series of annual
plantings.
Government authorities now offer
very attractive finance to landholders
of potential pine-plantation country.
Moreover, they back their cash with
adequate information and instruction
on pine culture. In view of the
generous financial and managerial
advice proffered, it is indeed rather
surprising that many more landholders
have not already taken up this new
form of farming. Perhaps the oppor-
tunities have not been sufficiently pub-
licised, or it may be that people are
discouraged by the risk of losing all
in a bushfire.
j\X R SIMFENDORFER’S calculation
of net return takes insurance pre-
miums into account. At any rate the
risk is lessening. Rural and forest fire
control is becoming progressively more
proficient. For instance, last year half
a million acres of forest was considered
to have a reasonably adequate fire
protection service. Only 2 percent of
this area was burnt. Where the service
was only of fair standard, 4.5 percent
was destroyed by fire; in regions where
protection was poorly organised or
ignored altogether, the losses reached
over 10 percent.
An officer of the Commonwealth
Forestry and Timber Bureau feels that
we have reached the point in fire
control where security can be bought.
He believes that 20 cents an acre spent
on fire protection would pretty well
guarantee the safety of our hardwood
forests. A similar level of protection
for pine plantations located in the
most fire-prone areas could run up to
$1.50 an acre. Approximately SSJ
million a year is currently being pro-
vided for fire control throughout Aus-
tralia’s forests. The bureau man con-
siders that if this expenditure was
about doubled we would probably
succeed in saving virtually all our
timber resources. We really ought to
make the effort to find this paltry sum.


Chess Bulletin
MICHAEL WOODHAMS
\I7ITH the World Junior Champion-
V' ship coming up in a matter of
months, the Australian Chess Federa-
tion was faced with the knotty prob-
lem of just who was going to represent
Australia. It couldn’t take the easy way
out and appoint the Australian Junior
Champion for the iob. First of all,
there just is not an Australian junior
champion. In fact, it appears almost
certain that there are going to be two
of them.
Another thing is that last year’s
junior champion, Michael Woodhams,
is still eligible to play in the World
Junior. So is Serge Rubinraut, of
N.S.W., who has been doing so well in
senior events.
The only way out of the dilemma was
to stage a tournament between the four
players and to send the winner. Thus
Michael Woodhams and Arthur Pope,
both from W.A., and Serge Rubinraut
and Ralph Shaw, of Sydney, battled it
out in a double rounder in Goolwa,
South Australia. Woodhams won this
selection tournament with four points,
and was immediately nominated as
Australia’s representative. The World
Junior is scheduled to take place in
Israel in August of this year.
Woodhams first hit the headlines in
1963 when he won the under 16 section
of the W.A. Junior Championship. In
1964 he won the junior title for that
State and repeated the performance in
1965. It was in January of 1966 that he
entered for and convincingly won the
Australian junior title. Another im-
portant victory for him was in the
1965 City of Fremantle Championship.
The following game shows Wood-
hams in action against his friendly
rival, Arthur Pope.
White: A Pope.
Black: M. Woodhams.
Opening: Philidor’s Defence.
1. P-K4, P-K4; 2. N-KB3, P-Q3; 3.
P-Q4, N-Q2.
The Hanham Variation.
4. N-83.
Better is 4. B-QB4 with a dangerous
follow up in 5. N-N5.
4 . . . P-QB3; 5. B-QB4, B-K2; 6.
B-K3, P-KR3; 7. P-QR 4, Q-B2; 8.
Q-K2, KN-B 3; 9. P-R3, N-Bl; 10. O-O,
P-KN 4!; 11. PxP, PxP; 12. QR-Ql,
N-N3?
12 . . . P-N5 would have posed some
uncomfortable problems for White at
this stage. Although it would have dis-
rupted Black’s K-side pawn structure,
his attack would have been embarras-
sing.
13. N-KR2!, B-Q2; 14. R-Q2, R-R2i
15. KR-Ql, N-B5!; 16. BxN, NPxB;
17. N-N4.
Black was threatening . . . R-N2 fol-
lowed by . . . 0-0-0 with another
severe attack along the KN file.
17 . . . BxN.
Not 17 . . . NxN because 18. Rxß
would give White an easy win.
18. Pxß, R-N2; 19. N-R2.
White cannot save the pawn. 19.
P-B3 would be too weakening.
19 . . . NxNP; 20. R-Q7, QxR; 21.
RxQ; KxR; 22. BxP.
An interesting Queen v. Rocks end-
ing with the position favoring the
Rooks manipulator.
22 . . . R-Ql!; 23. Q-84, K-B2; 24.
N-83.
Black threatened . . . R-BBch win-
ning the Queen.
24 . . . B-R5; 25. Q-K6. R-Q2; 26.
B-R5, R (Q) -K2.
27. Q-N3, BxPch; 28. K-81, B-K6; 29.
Q-N4.
White threatens BxN, but it is un-
likely Woodhams would have fallen for
that.
29 . . . N-R7ch; 30. K-Kl, P-N3; 31.
Q-84, K-N2; 32. N-Q5, PxN; 33.
QxPch, K-82.
The only square: . . . K-R3 would
lead to a speedy mate . . . K-Nl and
. . . K-Bl to a great old run around.
34. Q-RB, P-N4!; 35. B-KB, R-K3; 36.
BxP, RxP; 37. Q-Q5, N-B6ch; 38.
K-81.
Whilst Pope was wondering how to
avoid the mate in one, his flag fell and
he lost on time.
Problem No. 12.
William A. Shinkman, 1885.
(BLAC)
(WHITE)
White to play and mate in two moves.
Last week readers were called upon
(unintentionally) to solve two prob-
lems. Where was the black King?
Patience would have been rewarded in
deducing that the black Queen should,,
in fact, have been the King. The
solution is 1. K-N4.
Crossword No. 940
ACROSS
1. The lords of mirth are fools. (12)
8. Thus seen to be confused, but talks with fan-
like zeal. (8)
9. Greed I suppressed accounts for the more
nervy state? (6)
11. Its art affected the channel. (6)
12. Order of Merit in Semitic products on which
the Customs Department frowns. (4-4)
14. But it’s not these that do the pressing Crom-
wellians. (9)
15. This knob is done badly. (4)
18. Cork knob at the organ con-
sole to come to a standstill. (4)
20. Is made up of business increases
in politicians’ salaries. (9)
23. The gear it swallowed? Give it
some thought. (8)
25. Subject to a return invitation.
(6)
27. Soft, sloppy food for one given
to the malicious gossip circuit.
(6)
28. See you two on a big mail-
carrying liner, but such a prob-
lem for gardeners. (7)
29. One of the whitest guys in
business. (11)
DOWN
1. It’s to be served au gratin, so
put a sock in it. (6, 2)
2. Be most outspoken? (9)
3. A striking success you fail to
catch with fermented mare’s
milk. (7)
4. When the night appears flat.
(4)
5. An ineffectual cracker given to
George North is all the rage.
(7).
6. Having the characteristics of
the archery projectile could be
a worry. (6)
7. Ripe enough for this mooring.
(4)
10. Eat the aggregate in the ice-
cream container. (7)
13. Instruct foreign money in the
middle. (7)
16. Talk of the study undertaken
by Diana. (9)
17. Slanders snakes when holding
the tongue in the snakeless
island. (8)
19. A season after mine creates a.
serious difficulty. (7)
21. A French boy meeting Walter
for some renovation. (7)
22. Current doubled one with a.
wattle. (6)
24. Scram obtained none. (2, 2)
26. Island article in the eucalypt.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 939


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
Paid up capital
$23,350,000
DEBENTURE STOCK (SECOND RANKING)
(ranking for payment of principal and interest after
Debenture Stock secured by a Trust Deed dated 31st
March, 1950, between the Company and The Perpetual
Executors and Trustees Association of Australia Ltd.)
5
YEARS
6j°/o -12 MONTHS
Other rates and terms available see Prospectus for full
details Prospectus and application form available from:
• BROKERS lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
1147
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
tw TYrtrrYD pin
To RONALD RAYMOND O TOOLE.
TAKET NOTICE that JUDITH ANN
O TOOLE has filed Petition No. 1682
of 1966 for divorce on the grounds of
desertion and failure to pay mainten-
ance and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance and costs. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 28th day of March, 1967.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from D. G. STUART,
Solicitor, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A.
H. HARMS, Registrar.
MARTIN, ROBERT. —Anyone knowing
the whereabouts of Robert Martin, who
resided at one time at No. 152 Oxford
Street, Paddington, are asked to con-
tact T. J. PURCELL & CLAPIN, Solici-
tors, 66 King Street, Sydney.
SPECULATORS DIARY
How Not to Win Interest
LAST September Borg - Warner
announced a loss of $269,000 in
the first half of the financial year
and then proceeded to predict a return
to profitable trading in the second half.
To me, at the time, it seemed a stock
on the turn. To confirm this feeling
and also to learn a little more of the
background of the company, I arranged
an appointment with one of the com-
pany’s executives. A tentative date
was set only to be cancelled by the
gentleman’s secretary on the very day
arranged. Giving him the benefit of
the doubt, another appointment was
made. Again I was to be frustrated.
At this point, I lost interest.
Now we learn that a total loss of
$492,000 was chalked up for the full
year. Breaking this figure down, the
loss of $224,000 in the second half
was almost as great as the loss in the
first half. I do not object to the loss.
In fact I sympathise with the manage-
ment and their problems. But what is
irritating is the stark contrast between
the tone of the interim report and this
final result. Borg-Warner is one stock
that I will not be interested in for a
long, long time.
On this note, I hope, the interim
report due shortly from W. J. Manu-
facturing bears the same recovery mes-
sage as the final report last October.
One advantage with a heavy profit fall
is that it makes it much easier to show
an increase in profits in the following
year. Thus it should not be hard to
beat the earning rate of 11 percent
shown in the 1965-66 year. Inciden-
tally it appears to have been the second
half of that year that was the really
tough one.
Fortunately, trading conditions took
a significant turn for the better at the
beginning of the financial year. Not
only was there an improvement in local
demand but exports were also on the
rise. All in all, earning rate could
recover to about the 17 percent shown
in 1965.
One observation about W. J. Manu-
facturing is that diversification does not
necessarily lead to stability of profits.
The company operates six separate
divisions whose respective products are
often quite unrelated to one another.
Furthermore, sales are spread almost
right across the span of secondary
industry. Yet the trend of profits has r
reversed itself in each of the last four
years.
So much for the industrial purchase
this week. In line with current policy
I’m adding yet another oil stock to the
portfolio. Amalgamated Petroleum 41
cent paid shares have the distinction of
being one of the cheapest oil stocks on
the market. A one cent move in this
stock is equivalent to a $1 move in
BHP!
As Amalgamated has several land
leases as well as offshore leases, and as
it shares a gas field with the Associated
Group, any improvement in the oil
market should be fully reflected in the
Amalgamated Petroleum shares.
The only sale this week was Marrick-
ville Holdings. At the time of buying,
there seemed a reasonable possibility
that the Agricultural Council would
relax the quotas on margarine. Alas,
Mrs. Jones lost her case. As the shares
are not much less than the purchase
price, it seemed best to quit them.
Mind you, we have not heard the last
of the Jones’. Mrs. Jones is bound to
be out there again fighting for her right
to eat margarine. In the meantime,
hubby is engaged in a sterling battle
against the chemists.
Transactions for the week were:
BOUGHT
200 W. J. Mfg., $1.15 .. .. $235
2000 Amal. Pet. 41e pd., .5 .. $lO3
SOLD
500 Marrickville, $l.Ol . . .. $495
The market in general, and some of
my stocks in particular, have taken a
battering in the past few weeks. Per-
haps there’ll be some more sorting-out
in the short term, but the medium terpi
still looks very good.
The portfolio now consists of:
No. of Name of Date Cost per
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Gold Mines Kalg’rlie 10/6/66 1.20 1.00
550 Eglo Engineering 13/9/66 .87 .80
1000 Buckinghams 11/10/66 .13 .14
1000 G. J. Coles 12/10/66 1.09 1.20
500 Fire Fighting 14/12/66 .56 .52
200 Hanimex 16/12/66 1.45 1.50
300 Waugh 8< Josephson 4/1/67 224 2.40
400 King Island Scheelite 4/1/67 2.95 2.95
400 Darrel Lea 10/1/67 .90 .98
500 Uranium Consol. 11/1/67 .52 52
200 Kathleen 'lnv. 18/1/67 2.96 2.96
400 Pioneer Concrete 24/1/67 1.14 1.16
1000 Longreach 24/1/67 .25 .32
1000 Mid-East ctg. 1/2/67 .31 .28
500 Alliance Hldgs. 1/2/67 .70 .80
500 Aust. Hotel 6/2/67 .46 .48
400 Tooheys 7/2/67 1.01 .98
200 'Dunlop 7/2/67 1.45 1.42
200 W.J. Mfg. 15/2/67 1.15 1.15
2000 Amal. Pet. 41c pd. 15/2/67 05 .05


m
m.
’'/.fKt 1
m I
\
* ;
Jt
■
— j : 5| ■ ■ '
% --jem. ' : *JK
The Tower of London
I V
Big Ben
"-if •„ ' -
«fers%2^«-"-£•- N- ; - '
*4V\ -_=A
P
; i
•: 4k X’
aH v ***
Jlflfff/fjli
fi:
Kb:
»3
Vr-* v - ' .n* jSs?&
'nSrw
A
■
Historic Hastings
A Welsh Castle
I'm*
ill
o a n d
of
CTf
th
•rish
uards
0
*
•3.
«
. ■
V-.f
Th
ghts
of
Lo
don
Scottish Countryside
A/ *at c
ea
8
8
**r
*4W
Th
s *arf
of
all
MW
D
The Barkers brought these pictures
lack from Britain The Barkers
live in Sydney. They say: “We had
no idea just how many different
things there were to do. And a
holiday in Britain is so
economical a comfortable
hed and breakfast in an inn for
as little as $3.50. You can hire
a car for about $4O a week.”
Time you visited Britain
p sail P & O, Shaw
iSavill, Sitmar Line.
FREE! HOLIDAY GUIDE TO BRITAIN!
52 magazine-size pages of pure temptation! Full colour
photographs ... detailed descriptions of all the wonder-
ful things you can see and do on your trip! Send this
coupon now for this up-to-the-minute British Travel
book “Holidays in Britain”.
Name...
Address
MS47/B1
Post to BRITISH TRAVEL, 7th Floor, A.S.L. House, King
& Clarence Streets, Sydney. Phone 29.8627
Contact your Travel
or British Travel
A


mm
/ >
1
te,
P
w •
K 3
. H
wm&i
;■
SI
MMMMMri
CRAVEN
FILTER
belongs to the worid of today
Now is the time to make the change, join the
people who have made the change, and you’ll enjoy
the better taste of Craven Filter.
■X'/A'c?
i
any*'
v>
Cr AVe n
cm
