

The Bulletin
IN<SQjRPbRATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Mr Ed.
The talking Ambassador
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 25c, New Guinea 32c, Singapore 51.25, Malaysia $1.25.


\
• I*4
;• • .»
**\
I
14 f§ 1
*
» a
Ids
■/:r
~* a *' » w •
ipc»-..
<3f
Only with Qantas!
More than Double
the cargo space to
Europe and London
From December 1,1967
From December 1 we’ve room for more cargo, bigger cargo,
weightier cargo—cargo previously considered too big to air-freight—
on regular flights into and out of Australia.
Now the main cargo hold of our giant Boeing 338 C has a new maximum length of
30 feet, a spread of 9 feet in width and a ceiling of around 7 feet. Now Qantas can
offer more than double the cargo space of any other regular flight between Australia
and London. The era of regularly air-freighting the big, the bulky, the weighty
has begun. And Qantas has introduced the pallets to carry it, for a slick, quick,
roll-on, roll-off, load and unload.
Call Qantas now for full details of new increased freight space availability from
December 1. You could be saving money on consignments
considered too big and bulky to air-freight—until now!
AIR CARGO
AUSTRALIA’S FREIGHT WAY TO THE WORLD: EUROPE, ASIA, AMERICA, AFRICA.
Q ANT AS KANGAROO ROUTE TO LONDON via Sydney, Djakarta, Singapore, Bangkok, Bahrain, Cairo, Rome,
AND TO SYDNEY via London, Athens, Teheran, New Delhi, Hong Kong, Manila.
QANTAS, with AIR INDIA , AIR NEW ZEALAND, BOAC, MSA and S.A.A
A 268.


Why the price
of the Bulletin will
go up to
25c next week
The Australian price of The Bulletin
has remained at 20c over a time
when all the costs of producing it
have gone up, when the service to
readers has been expanded, and
when the price of most other magazines
has increased.
To meet these increased costs, next
week the price will be
increased to 25c.
We are sure you appreciate that
The Bulletin is the only magazine
of its kind that provides an
understanding of what is happening
in our country and in the countries
around us and that looks at the
world from an Australian viewpoint.
You may not agree with
everything in The Bulletin, but we
are sure you appreciate its value.
And how you can still
get the Bulletin at
the old price of 20c
To keep faith with regular Australian
readers we now announce a special
concession offer in which you
can continue to pay only the old
price of 20c for The Bulletin.
Under this special offer Australian
readers can take out a 12 months’
subscription to The Bulletin for $10.40.
This represents a saving on the
new price of $2.60.
This offer is available to Australian
readers only.
MAIL THIS COUPON NOW
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me the next 52 issues of the Bulletin. I enclose a cheque for $10.40.
NAME
ADDRESS
(BLOCK LETTERS)
(BLOCK LETTERS)
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTION DEPT., BOX 4088, G.P.0., SYDNEY 2001.
TAKE OUT A SUBSCRIPTION NOW


1
...V 'V
is
m
J
mm-
f
:'5» 'WC
-
Office space by courtesy of Associated Securities Ltd. and Richardson & Wrench Ltd.
We can supply everything and help with the rent
*
So you're about to open a new office. Expand
your existing one. Or just toying with the idea
of modernising. Then save yourself money
and traumas. We're serious.
You see, even our competitors admit we
are the world's largest business equipment
organisation. And that we can supply you
with everything from a simple paper clip to
a bank of Lektriever Automated Records
Retrieval Systems. Correct. But that's not all.
Should you need advice or floor plans on
the actual placing of equipment to ensure
rapid work flow, staff-movement conserva-
tion. minimal distance between work-points
our Time-and-Motion men skilled in
ergonomics are at your service.
Whatever your office set-up—small or mas-
sive. simple or complex you can be certain
of receiving our complete concentration.
But don’t take our word for it here. Ask our
clients. Or give us a ring. No obligation.
(*What you'll save in operational costs of
your Remington equipment alone will help
towards your office rent.)
Remington Rand World's Largest Business Equipment Organisation
TYPEWRITERS • ADDING MACHINES • ACCOUNTING MACHINES • CALCULATING MACHINES • ADP EQUIPMENT • OFFICE SYSTEMS • FILING EQUIPMENT • DUPLICATORS • OFFSET PRINTING MACHINES
OFFICE SUPPLIES • POSTAL FRANKING MACHINES . ADDRESSER PRINTERS • LETTER OPENING & SEALING MACHINES » FOLDING & INSERTING MACHINES • COUNTING & IMPRINTING MACHINES
RR525


3
<<&]
-M
t>!
&
‘Here’s
a list of
wffatybu
wont get at
£/\tenzies:
q!>q>
to®
m
6) A)
We can’t think of anything! Our Wine List features
the finest vintages from all over the world.
Our Menus—the ultimate in International cuisine.
Our rooms and suites are luxurious.
And our service the most personalised.
MENZIES
14 Carrington Street, Sydney. Telephone 2-0232
For immediate reservations contact: MELBOURNE - SAVOY PLAZA • BRISBANE - LENNONS BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA - LENNONS TOOWOOMBA • ADELAIDE - HOTEL AUSTRALIA • HOBART - WREST POINT RIVIERA
MZI/49102g
The Bulletin
VOL. 89. No. 4573
OCTOBER 28, 1967
ESTABLISHED 1880
MR. ED the
talking Ambassador 26
COLUMNS
On the Margin
by Ross Campbell 7_
Out & About
by Daphne Guinness 10_
The Economy
by Michael Baunte 12
One More Week 17_
As l See It
by Alan Reid 18_
Speculator's Diary 50
Something New
with Graham Kerr 76
COLOR PORTFOLIO 14
AUSTRALIA 21
SPECIAL FEATURES 32_
OVERSEAS 35
»
BUSINESS & FINANCE 42
THE LAND 61
ARTS 8. ENTERTAINMENT 69
BOOKS 73
LETTERS 77_
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney 2001—Park House, 51-58 Park
Street, Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne 3000 Newspaper House,
Coinns Street. Phone: 63-3341.


:•*>
-m.
<3>
J
u
UJ
am
**
m
*
You’re transferring 10 employees
to an interstate branch
-don’t make a move without a Wridgways quote.
In this day and age, more companies are shift-
ing more people to more places.
And the fact is, the more you move with
Wridgways, the more money you save.
You see, Wridgways go to more places, more
often, than anyone else. And we’re the only
removalist in Australia to run scheduled ser-
vices to every major centre in Australia
and all stops in between.
That is why your move, large or small, indus-
trial or personal, will be accomplished more
swiftly and more efficiently than by anyone else.
And that is why a Wridgways quote can be
financially advantageous to you. Let us send
you a Wridgways Quote Card now, just as a
reminder if you ever have to shift someone.
If we can move things as quickly as we say we
can, you won’t have to pay for temporary
accommodation while your employees are wait-
ing for their furniture to arrive.
And after all, it’s your money we’re saving.
Moving or storing think of the “double W”
H 9
WRIDGWAYS (NSW) Pty. Ltd. - 709 2222
Melbourne 82 1234 Adelaide 53 1234 Perth 65 2499 Brisbane 47 1234 Launceston 46 9877 Darwin 3 751 e!w27ss/2


PS.
WRIDGWAYS
STORAGE
can save
you money
To replace furniture costs money.
To store it is much more economical
than you might think.
So if you’re temporarily without
housing after selling, while build-
ing, overseas or for any other reason
think about storing your belong-
ings.
Wridgways offer Australia’s largest
storage facilities. All under cover.
And at Wridgways it’s Personal
Storage because it’s locked con-
tainer storage. This means that all
your goods are sealed in individual
containers. Well packed. Dust free.
Moth and mildew free. Free from
pilferage.
And private.
You won’t find storage quite this
good anywhere else.
And it costs no more than anywhere
else. Certainly much less than re-
buying.
STORING
THINK OF THE “DOUBLE W”
m
WRIDGWAYS
in your Phone Book
S W 2755
ON THE
MARGIN
Virgil—the
draft-dodger with
the soft job
BY ROSS CAMPBELL
ROBERT GRAVES WAS a tough
fellow in youth. He had his nose broken
at Charterhouse, as he recalled in
“Goodbye to All That,” “playing
Rugger with Soccer players. (I broke
another player’s nose myself in the same
game.)” He also did a good deal of
boxing. His face, at the age of 72,
still has the flattened look of a boxer,
his frequent smile shows somewhat
knocked-about teeth, and he doesn’t
seem to have lost any vigor. He is
cheerful, exuberant, charming, and in
conversation willing to spar a couple
of rounds on any subject.
My feelings about his writings over
the years have wobbled between de-
lighted admiration and irritation at
some of the views he has expressed.
In particular I have not been able
to forget the insults which, in one of
his lectures as Oxford Professor of
Poetry, he heaped on my favorite poet,
Virgil. He called Virgil an “Apollonian
anti-poet,” who “bartered his talent
for social security” and was charac-
terised by “a perfect lack of originality,
courage, humor, and even animal
spirits.” In going to interview Mr.
Graves I determined to tackle him on
the subject. However, better discuss
other things first.
He was staying in a pleasant, airy flat
at Lindfield. I mentioned the days
when he was a grocer near Oxford after
World War 11. “I was an unsuccessful
grocer,” he said. “I’ve found it much
more profitable than grocering to sell
Batman is away on
holiday this week
manuscripts of my poems to American
Universities. I make more from selling
the manuscripts than I do from the
poems. It’s enabled me to send my
children to college.
“Often I make 14 or 15 drafts of a
poem, and I can sell the drafts,” he
said with relish. “It gives the Ph.D.
people a chance to discuss why I made
the changes. If it amuses them, that’s
all right with me. The Americans are
very interested in buying manuscripts
now. It’s because they’re not so sure
about paintings as an investment.
There’s a feeling that these abstract
painters could slump; and the Impres-
sionists and Post-Impressionists are so
expensive. So they’re inclined to put
money into manuscripts instead.”
I asked about his new translation of
Omar Khayyam, soon to be published.
Wasn’t it a very Gravesian gesture to
challenge comparison with Fitzgerald?
“Fitzgerald’s version has a mid-
Victorian mood,” he said. “He makes
it languid. The poem is really more
tight, that’s how I’ve tried to render it.
And Fitzgerald had to find three rhymes
for every stanza, which is very difficult
to do; to get some of the. rhymes he
was inaccurate.” The Graves transla-
tion is in stanzas of four lines without
rhymes.
Working up to the challenge, I turned
the questions into classical territory.
Homer—he had translated the “Iliad” a
few years ago. Didn’t he regard it as
a vastly greater poem than the more
popular “Odyssey”? “A much greater
poem, yes, but the ‘Odyssey’ is a more
enjoyable story. I’ve written a play on
the theme of the ‘lliad’; they’re going
to put it on at the Lincoln Center in
New York. It’s got the biggest auditor-
ium in the world. Of course the
‘Odyssey’ is facinating; it’s divided into
three parts, you know. The first 80 lines
are based on one of the old nostoi,
accounts of the journey's home of the
Robert Graves... enchanting


COOL
A HEAT
NORMAL
• NORMAL fan
□
• HIGH
FAN
• OFF
gtcu^uu^
set the thermostat today
live in cool
comfort
AUTOMATICALIY
all summer
wmt.
a Kelvinatorßefrigerated AIR CONDITIONER
automatically maintains the desired mom
temperature you select
■ What a fabulous new way to live! You'll never complain about heat or
humidity again. You simply choose the temperature you want then forget
it. Your Kelvinator Refrigerated Room Air Conditioner will maintain that
temperature automatically. All year ’round, too, because it both cools and
heats, i I And, because it is a refrigerated unit, your Kelvinator Air Condi-
tioner banishes humidity by the gallon. It also ventilates, exhausts stale air
and smoke, brings in fresh, filtered air and circulates air to all corners of
the room. I I See tfre big range of Kelvinator Refrigerated Room Air Condi-
tioners at your nearest retailer soon. More people choose Kelvinator than
all other brands combined.
More Kelvinator quality features l l Acoustically designed front panel cuts
noise gives quiet operation, i | 4-way louvre type air deflectors guide air to all
corners of the room. | i All-welded chassis has no nuts or bolts to work loose
and cause rattles. [ l Foam filter behind front is washable. Saves replacement costs.
■ Avoid disappointment! I I Kelvinator are refrigeration specialists. Take this
word of advice from them—have the area you wish to air condition surveyed—free
of charge —by a Kelvinator retailer. You see, with air conditioning the size of the
room is not the only criterion. By having a survey you'll be certain that the model
you choose will be the right model for your needs.
Efe
Model illustrated: model 1758, 1 £ H.P.
16,500 B.T.U. cooling capacity. Available
on low deposit, easy terms.
REFRIGERATED
AIR CONDITIONERS
Greeks from the Trojan War. All the
people who had insulted Aphrodite by
fighting against the Trojans came to a
bad end; they got home and found their
wives had been unfaithful, and so on. All
except Nestor, that is; he just remained
a frightful bore. In the nostos about
Ulysses he got home and found his wife
living with fifty suitors.”
“Do you mean Penelope was actually
sleeping with the suitors?” I said.
“Oh, yes, in the old poem she was.”
As he expounded the “Odyssey” Mr.
Graves stood up and walked about, with
his grey hair waving. “Samuel Butler
put up the theory that the poem was
written by a woman, and I agree. There
is plenty of evidence; I made use of it in
my book ‘Homer’s Daughter.’ For one
thing the author didn’t know one end
of a boat from the other.”
The time had come. “Excuse me,
Mr. Graves,” I said. “I must mention
that I strongly disagreed with some
things you said about Virgil. I think
he is the best of the Latin poets.”
He looked at me with smiling
astonishment. “Virgil?” he said. “Oh,
no! Now Catullus, perhaps—he was a
real man. He had the nerve to be
rude to Julius Caesar.”
“But that was under the Republic,
when you could get away with that
sort of thing.”
“Oh, Virgil was a dirty person! He
was so subservient. The ‘Aeneid’ is all
written for the glory of his employer,
Augustus.”
“Did many people object to what you
said about him?”
“Some scholars did—but they have
an investment in him to protect. T. S.
Eliot didn’t object. I think he was
frightened of me.”
“Didn’t you criticise Virgil for dodg-
ing military service?”
“Yes. He had piles, of course. He
didn’t want to go campaigning with
piles.”
“But surely he was a good poet just
the same,” I said.
“In what way?”
“I like the sad touches in him, like
the longing for the farther shore. You
feel that in spite of having that good
job writing publicity for the Emperor
Augustus, he was really a disappointed
man.”
“Are you disappointed?” Mr. Graves
asked.
“Well, I suppose everyone is to some
extent.”
He laughed loudly. “I’m not disap-
pointed!” he said. He slapped me on
the back, said he was sorry if his
remarks on Virgil had offended.
Another interviewer was waiting and I
said goodbye.
An enchanting person. Yet—those
ghosts who couldn’t get across the Styx,
and stretched out their hands in long-
ing for the farther shore. Tendebantque
manus ripae ulterioris amore. I still
like it even if Virgil did have piles.
Charles Higham's interview with
Robert Graves is on page 34.


WA
%
%
Wa
0L
m
ID
7a
PS
Fora clean slate
Well within time limits prescribed by law, a widow with adequate probate protection
wipes her slate clean of death duties, legal charges and outstanding household
accounts. Being certain of ready cash at the right time, she avoids loss of assets
through forced sales. It is a tragedy to see an asset, built up on a lifetime of work,
sacrificed simply through lack of foresight. Without careful planning through
A.M.P.’s “Blue Chip” Probate Insurance Plan, your estate may be in jeopardy. Call
in an A.M.P. man for an A.M.P. Family Security Check-up. This provides an auto-
matic review of your probate protection plan, free and without obligation.
ACCEPT
NOTHING LESS
THAN
'BLUE CHIP"
PROTECTION
Z'p
LEQ
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: Sydney Cove
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding $1,700 million which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


We’ve got
the best tyre recipe
in the business.
Every one of our tyres has a recipe card.
It specifies ingredients, quantities, temperatures.
And our production personnel follow it. Exactly.
Every time. What does it all add up to?
More care. All the way. That's important to us.
Your B.F. Goodrich Dealer takes more
care with your tyres, too.
He'll check them
-free. Today.
J,
B.E Goodrich
'We take more care with your tyres'
2860/B
OUT AND
ABOUT
A new batch
of wicked ladies
for the Cross
By DAPHNE GUINNESS
“YOU CAN BET your life we’re going
to rehearse,” says Canadian Roy Dales,
referring to the opening of his Kings
Cross waxworks in Sydney next week.
The plan is this: Minister for Tourism
Eric Willis will tug a chain, a man
concealed behind a screen will push a
button, and, to cheers and applause
from assembled guests, the Sleeping
Beauty will commence breathing. God
and short-circuits willing.
Keith Johnson, one of Mr. Dale’s
team of artists, still remembers a
Sleeping Beauty whose motor got the
better of her breathing and sent it
haywire. This time he is taking no
chances. He is installing a regulated
engine in her diaphragm, attaching it
to a wire through her shoulders, and
plugging the whole thing into a three-
pin socket in the wall. Provided she
turns up, that is. Oh, she’s in Sydney,
all right. Down on the docks with the
Queen, the Duke, Prince Charles, what
Mr. Dales calls the wickedest ladies,
Cleopatra and Salome, and all the
others, 65 in toto. But no one’s telling
when they’re arriving at the waxworks.
It may be 6 a.m., tomorrow, it may be
midnight, tonight. “The thing is,” says
Joyce Mills, their P.R.0., “the Press
do like taking pictures of things going
wrong. You know, supposing the Queen
arrived with her head off. Well, they’d
love it, but we wouldn’t. Sir Robert
Menzies is coming by air. Something
went wrong with him at Josephine
Tussaud’s in London. He had to be
remade.”
“Now, here,” says Keith Johnson on
his way round what was once 3500 sq.
ft. of shops and the back end of Tea-
house of the August Moon, and is now
two floors of black-walled corridors
and niches, “here is a show-stopper. It
has what we call shock value and we
provide an optional button people
can either push and look, or not push
and pass on.” Getting the Algerian
Hook or, as it is otherwise described,
“a method of slow execution in ancient
Algiers” right cost about $lOOO or
so. It’s a matter of subtle lighting on
the victim’s eyes as he swings like a
bent bow with the hook through his
stomach. Some women don’t care to
look, but children usually love it.
It’s a pity, thinks Mr. Johnson, that


n
&
' :v> .
ss,
m
-**.*• W>
Stop and shop in Singapore -
Instant Asia!
Luxury items like tliese are worth
shopping for in Singapore—tax-free
bargain centre for international mer-
chandise. Malays, Chinese and Indians
make this island rich in culture,
pageant and costume. When you’re
visiting the Orient or travelling to
Europe include a trip to the Island of
exotic variety—Singapore.
For more facts about Singapore,
please use this Island coupon
Name :
//
\i Address: .
>1 A
tl v yj/rs
i V
Please post to: Singapore Government Tourist Information Office, fj
15, Grosvenor Street, A TO
* Sydney. U
X /
n
TAIPEI
HONG KONG^j*
■BANGKOK^
UJALA LUM
SINGAPORE >
>S
Ned Kelly’s shock value is lessened by
the sight of Don Bradman knocking up
his 452nd run in the foreground, but in
a place of this size, even if it does con-
tain a quarter of a million dollars’ worth
of waxworks, one can’t have every-
thing. Ah, though, here is Scene 7
which is really gory. Marie Antoinette
imprisoned in the Bastille and busy
modelling chopped-off heads because
she was so good with her hands. There
will be a basket in front, with a head
inside covered with blood. They use a
special product to simulate blood, but
Mr. Johnson’s not saying what it is.
Certainly not.
Scene 5 is Kennedy Corner and, as
Miss Mills points out, a bit of an ex-
clusive for The Bulletin. No one has
seen this yet. Actually, it is a very
tricky corner. An electrical device
throws a ghostly picture of Kennedy on
to a sheet of glass every 16 seconds.
Behind this is a painting of the Capitol
which, for some reason, does not please
Mr. Johnson. Oh well, consoles Miss
Mills, it always seemed a dreary place
to her, rather dull, you know.
Whose shoes are these in Captain
Cook’s niche alongside an ancient spy-
glass? They belong to Norman Rolling-
son, another artist who leaves his things
everywhere. Even his paintbrush and
paint-tray. Actually, Norm is very crea-
tive and a whizz at mending damaged
waxworks. If a crack appears, and they
always do, Norm heats up his hot-iron
and puts it right. What worries him is
the arrival of the lifesavers. Being Aus-
tralian they expose a lot of flesh and
this is all wax. Back in London they’re
saying they can’t possibly travel without
damage. They will be amazed if they
get here in recognisable condition at
all. The thought sends Norm into
gloom. He returns to creating a turn-
stile on the ground floor.
There are kangaroo bones on the
floor of one niche, but they’ll end up
looking human. They had terrible
trouble with the shark in “Tribute to
Lifesavers” scene. The taxidermist was
a long time starting, and, when he did,
caught his arm on the shark’s tooth and
it blew up like a balloon. Whose shoes
are those in the Mad Hatter’s Tea
Party? Derek de Roy’s, the chief artist.
Derek has something up his sleeve for
Les Femmes Fatales, i.e. Lucrezia Bor-
gia, Salome, Jezebel, Cleopatra (the
real one, says Miss Mills, not Elizabeth
Taylor) posed tastefully round the air-
conditioning unit which someone built
in unexpectedly. Derek thinks he will
lie one of the Fatal Ladies with her
head on the duct.
The 22nd Scene is one of Mr. Dales’
guide girls sitting behind a desk in her
mini-skirted ming-blue uniform sell-
ing glossy postcards at 10 cents each
and souvenir catalogues for 35 cents.
Sometimes she will stand on the blue
pig’s-bristle carpet in her Dr. Scholl’s
exercise sandals and pretend to be a
waxwork.
This will give the customers a good
last laugh on the way out.


MICHAEL BAUME WRITES OK
THE
ECONOMY
Exports now face
a rampant
protectionism
WE ARE GOING to need a lot more
luck and more mineral bonanzas
yet before we get out of the serious
problem that is mounting for our
exports. It seems ridiculous in a world
with an almost insatiable need for our
major exports (food and raw materials)
that we face such increasing diffi-
culties in selling so many of them. But
we do. Of our three biggest custo-
mers, one is turning away from us,
one behaving in a most unfriendly way,
and one could end up in difficulties
itself. It is going to take some hard
work and powerful negotiating to get
us out of the mire.
This month’s attempts to renegoti-
ate the British-Australian trade agree-
ment have failed, as the British don’t
want to talk about trading with us
until they get into the EEC (and they
won’t be able to, then, anyway); the
American Congress is trying to block
more and more of our exports there;
Japanese manufacturers using . Austra-
lian raw materials may soon find it
increasingly difficult to sell their pro-
ducts in their major market, and the
much-vaunted Kennedy Round was
largely a flop for Australia.
The only really bright sign on the
trade front is last month’s decision by
the International Monetary Fund to
allow countries to increase their inter-
national reserves by larger credits, or
“paper gold,” in order to finance world
trade that is growing at a faster rate
than the world’s supply of money. But
this is still only part of the way toward
solving the problem, and it could be
a failure if it is not allowed to proceed
as hoped.
Our trade problems with Britain were
not unexpected, but they are still
serious. The Australian trade delega-
tion that returned last week from its
fruitless attempts to encourage the
British to review the British-Australian
trade agreement (and to sign a new
meat agreement to replace that which
expired last month) got the clear
impression that Britain will not jeopar-
dise its EEC application by even talking
about trade with countries like Aus-
tralia. And there can be no doubt now
that the British do not consider any
Australian interests as “essential” in
their dealings with the EEC, and that
they agree with the EEC that the
gradual removal of Imperial prefer-
ences should not present insuperable
difficulties to us.
This is serious indeed, for, despite
the growth of other markets, Britain is
still one of our best customers, and is
the key market for many of our goods.
The end of preferences will mean the
end of a large volume of British sales
of many products, as the table suggests.
Most of these items are now only a
little less dependent on the British
market than they were at the time of
her last attempt to join the EEC.
But is is in America that the most
serious problem lies. It will need a
strong-willed administration to hold
back the mounting pressures of protec-
tionism that are becoming very strong
in Congress. “The protectionist tide
which is rising in America might
swamp all the moves for freer trade
taken in the last generation,” according
to President Johnson’s special represen-
tative for trade negotiations, Mr.
William Roth. This protectionism is
not simply to offset the effects of the
lower tariffs granted in the Kennedy
Round that become effective in January;
even U.S. industries like textiles and
steel that are hardly affected by the
Kennedy tariff cuts are mounting heavy
protectionist campaigns. And with an
election looming up next year, domestic
political pressures are very strong.
MORE THAN HALF the members of
the House of Representatives are spon-
sors of the dozen or so protectionist bills
now before it. The House of Represen-
tatives has already passed a Bill that
would empower the President to raise
tariffs or impose quotas on any im-
ported product produced by a country
with lower labor standards than the
U.S. In practice this means the rest of
the world. It would not become law
without the President’s signature, and
while there seems no chance of its get-
ting that, it nevertheless reflects the
strongly held U.S. attitude that may
well be successful one day.
Of course, the Johnson administra-
tion is fighting this trend. Mr. Roth’s
speech warning protectionists of the
retaliation they are inviting from abroad
has been followed by a strong state-
ment last week from the Secretary of
State, Dean Rusk, who said the ad-
ministration was opposed to a “retreat
into protectionism” because it would
“harm our domestic economy, injure
rather than help our labor force, con-
tribute to inflationary pressures, and
undermine our foreign policy by breed-
ing hostility and discontent when we
need peace and co-operation.”
The Australian Government has pro-
tested to the U.S. Government about
these moves. And it is not just the
Australian Government that is worried.
Last week Britain expressed “serious
concern” over possible new trade re-
strictions in a note to the U.S. State
Department. It pointed out that the
British Government would “find it
difficult to resist” local pressures to
restrict imports from the U.S. if the
Americans did impose restrictions on
the scale now before Congress, which
would have “serious repercussions.”
Japan, the EEC, and most Scandinavian
countries have also protested.
ALMOST 60 PERCENT of Australia’s
U.S. exports are involved in the Bills
now before Congress, with meat, dairy
products, lead and zinc, wool textiles,
wool tops, and steel being on the list.
But these restrictive moves would also
have an impact on other countries that
are Australia’s customers. The moves
against steel and textiles are of major
significance to Japan, which has a fair
slice of the U.S. import market for
these items and which uses Australian
raw materials in them (Japan is our
biggest customer for wool and iron
ore). The U.S. market is a big one;
the 12 percent that largely Japanese
imports are likely to make up of the
U.S. steel market this year is a very
substantial amount.
It was because of this American
protectionism that the “Economist” last
week suggested that the Kennedy
Round of tariff reductions may yet be
undone in practice, “no matter how
good it may look on paper.” But the
Kennedy Round had done much for
agricultural and raw material export-
ers like Australia, anyway; for example,
in the six major industrial countries
industrial goods make up four-fifths
of their trade that will benefit from
the Kennedy Round, yet more than half
their total imports are in primary
products.
So because of these trading prob-
lems we face next month, Mr. McEwen
will go off to Geneva to talk about trade
instead of tub-thumping his way
around Australia in the Senate elec-
tions. But even without this new
wave of U.S. protectionism, Mr. Mc-
Ewen would have had to show up at
next month’s Geneva meeting that has
been called “urgently” by the director-
general of the General Agreements on
Tariff and Trade to deal with prob-
lems that were simply avoided in the
Kennedy Round, such as obstacles to
trade in agricultural products like
meat, dairy products, cereals, and fruit.
With self-interest and reckless pro-
tectionism now appearing to rate so
high in the leading Western countries,
the prospect of success in Geneva looks
pretty slim.


meet Tom Theobald
Tom Theobald is the head of an important Australian
finance corporation, jointly owned by First National City
Bank and Waltons. FNCB-Waltons.
You know about Waltons. It's Australia's largest retailer of
homewares with 70 stores in three states. Its name and
its business have been built on good value merchandise
and sound credit. One in every four N.S.W. families has
an account with Waltons. In the three Eastern states
the figures are one in six. And for more than 20 years
Waltons has paid shareholders at least a dividend.
What about First National City Bank? It is one of the
world's leading banks. $l5 billion in assets. Headquarters
in New York. In 61 countries around the globe. F.N.C.B.
originated personal loans back in 1 928 and has now made
13 million individual loans. And they have had 155 years
experience in industrial and commercial lending.
Naturally enough, FNCB-Waltons with their combined
wealth of financial experience are moving into the same
fields. Expanding in consumer credit, equipment finance,
real estate loans. Now we think its time you sized us up.
Checked our credentials. Talk to any broker about us.
He'll be delighted and so will we. Or whatever your
interest, write or ring Tom Theobald, Managing Director,
Royal Exchange Building, Sydney. Telephone: 27 9281
FNCB-WALIDNS
WAL16AN


Life in the new Army
By SANDRA JOBSON. Pictures by LEE PEARCE
A WORLD WAR I Digger going back
for a sentimental look at his old Army
camp at Holsworthy, near Sydney,
would receive a shock. The days of
scrubbing-brushes and straw palliasses
are over. Three months ago the electric-
One of the three billiard tables in the
$400,000 Maxwell Club at Holsworthy Camp
Below: Mascot of the First Battalion, veterans
of Vietnam, is Shetland pony Septimus
The day of the straw palliasse is over. Today, at least while
you are in training, it may be a foam-rubber mattress
Below: Giving the soldier a steak in the country. The camp
has three messes, each capable of feeding nearly 1000 men


polisher and foam-rubber-mattress
army marched in.
A giant army city at Holsworthy
housing 1800 men and covering 200
acres of newly bulldozed bushland is
just completed. The Minister for De-
fence, Mr. Allen Fairhall, will officially
open the barracks this month.
The Army has spent $13.5 million
on Holsworthy. The modem thinking
goes this way: the Australian soldier
has it tough enough in the field, so why
can’t he enjoy life at home? The new
barracks look more like a housing estate
or a holiday health farm than an army
camp. The streets are kerbed and
guttered and lined with concrete-poled
street lights. Wattle and gum trees and
Each room of the barracks houses four
men, and each has his own desk, ward-
robe, and bed lamp
Square-bashing against the background
of some of the main buildings of the
new camp
Below: Aerial view of the new camp at
Holsworthy. When finished it will cover
1000 acres


rotary clotheslines dot the ground,
which is soon to sprout lawns.
In contrast is the forlorn old camp
across the road. Troops still live there,
waiting their turn to move into new
quarters, but it is already a ghost-town.
Wooden huts stand on brick piles,
their grey and butter-colored paint
fading and peeling. The wire on the
tennis courts sags and rusts.
Currently, the Fifth Battalion, re-
turned from Vietnam, is being re-
equipped at Holsworthy. Reinforce-
ment troops are given the run around
over tough jungle-style battle efficiency
courses in the nearby bush.
In the old days the private soldier
squatted in the dust, with the sun beat-
ing down on his back, drowsily watch-
ing battle plans drawn on the ground
with a gum twig. At the new barracks,
he sits at a writing-desk in one of the
ten instruction classrooms and watches
a green blackboard which folds open
to reveal a screen for a projector fitted
into the back wall.
As the senior officer, Brigadier W. J.
Morrow, says, the army private is no
longer regarded as “some sort of nong.”
Today he must be trained in sophisti-
cated war techniques and taught to use
computerised machinery.
Brigadier Morrow is in charge of
the newly fledged 10th Task Force,
whose headquarters are in the new
barracks. Two veteran Vietnam bat-
talions, the Ist and sth RAR, have also
moved into the camp.
“The soldier appreciates comfort
after three or four weeks living and
washing out of a water-bottle,” Briga-
dier Morrow said. “The new design
makes running the camp easier. The
stores are safe and dry, cleaning is
easier. It allows more time to be
devoted to military training. And the
new buildings raise morale. When it’s
all boiled down, everyone is interested
in his own material comfort.”
And as far as comfort is concerned,
the new soldier has never had it so
good. He can swim in the Olympic-
size Northcott swimming-pool at the
camp.
Costing more than $200,000, the pool
is also used for training troops to
swim across in full battle equipment.
Because of their metal-tipped boots,
there are no tiles on the floor of the
pool.
Today’s soldier can play tennis on
one of the 18 top-standard all-weather
courts at the new barracks. Or he can
laze in an armchair in the soldiers’
$400,000 Maxwell Club.
The bar at the club is called the
“Tavern,” and has a terracotta-tiled
floor, soundproofed ceiling, rough-
textured-brick walls, and an unstinted
array of drinks in glass-fronted refriger-
ated cupboards behind the bar. There
are practically no restrictions on drink-
ing and drinks cost less than they do in
town.
Next door is the billiard-room with
three tables. The games-room next to
it has carpet bowls and table tennis,
and the men open the concertina door
between this room and the TV room
when they bring their girlfriends to
the barracks for a dance.
In the dry canteen a soldier can buy
anything from a steak-and-egg sandwich
costing 35 cents to a set of golf clubs,
a radiogram, or a toaster. In the barber
shop he gets a regulation short back
and sides for 60 cents 20 cents
cheaper than outside.
Each mess kitchen has dishwashing
machines capable of handling 1200
dishes at a time. Crockery is shoved
along a conveyor belt and rubbish is
automatically tipped into a king-size
garbage-disposal unit.
Each kitchen has 600 cubic feet of
refrigerators and the floors are covered
in tiles which don’t absorb water.
When the kitchens are running at full
strength, with 800 to 1000 men to feed,
the vegetable statistics are overwhelm-
ing. Each kitchen peels and cooks
6001 b. of potatoes alone.
Each company has its own quarter-
master’s store, but the chief Q-store
for each battalion is housed in a large
“warehouse” building. Roll-up doors
open on to concrete loading bays and
safe-rooms store valuable items and
guns.
Captured Viet Cong guns lie in
dilapidated rows in the Q-store arsenals:
Thompson sub-machine guns, 1917 U.S.
Winchesters which were originally cap-
tured from Americans by the VCs.
Serve-yourself canteen at one of the
three soldiers ' messes
Playing the jukebox in the dry
canteen at the Maxwell Club


ONE MORE
WEEK
Trans-Tasman TAB
AMONG THOSE TAKING an intense
interest in this year’s Melbourne Cup
is one surprise entry the New Zea-
land Government, which hopes to pass
legislation in time to enable New Zea-
landers to bet on the Cup with their
own TAB and so save most of the
$150,000 which New Zealanders
normally wager with Australian book-
makers backing N.Z. stayers which
have crossed the Tasman to take part
in, and in some years dominate, Mel-
bourne’s spring racing. This year, for
instance, New Zealand money will be
following Terrific and Stellar Belle,
both N.Z.-owned, with a possible saver
on Sunhaven, N.Z.-bred. In other years,
$150,000 may not have seemed enough
to worry over, but today, with a
balance of payments crisis, it helps.
The plans in Iran
SYDNEY CITY and regional planner
George Clarke returned last week from
a month in Iran, convinced that Iran
could give Australia some useful lessons
in the cutting of red tape. Mr. Clarke,
whose firm, URBSEARCH (Urban
Research Centre), has been appointed
to review city and regional development
activities throughout Iran, told us: “The
Americans working in Iran used to get
impatient at having to wait a fortnight
for a letter from a government depart-
ment. I used to tell them that if they
were in Australia they’d have to wait
six months.”
Mr. Clarke said that before going
ahead with its planning program the
Iranian Government called in an
American professor of political science
to present a “plan for planning.” “The
trouble with Australia where there
is no National Plan Organisation as
there is in Iran is that all the elec-
torates demand ‘equal’ treatment, and
it’s politically difficult for either Federal
or State governments to have any
coherent regional development plans
and policies. They ought to decide that
they can’t develop all of our small
country towns, which will decline any-
way. They should concentrate invest-
ment at growth points. Victoria seems
to be recognising this with the Parlia-
mentary Committee’s inquiry. It recom-
mended decentralisation to three Vic-
torian provincial towns. But the N.S.W.
State Government is not facing up to its
metropolitan problems. They seem to
think if they close their eyes they’ll go
away. Of course, if we did concentrate
planning into one Federal body as Iran
is doing, we might, in the Australian
fashion, simply create a mammoth
bureaucracy.”
The son of Whistler's Mother
“I CAN PLAY ANYTHING almost
anything you care to name, except
‘The Flight of the Bumble Bee,’ ” Mr.
Des Lane, the only penny whistle vir-
tuoso in the world, who is currently
at the Silver Spade in Sydney, told us
with an understandable air of pride.
“The penny whistle is second nature
to me now, I’ve been playing it since
I was eight.
“I can manage two-and-one-third
octaves, which as you say is only a
fraction less than Barbra Streisand can
do with her voice. Penny whistles
here is one which I have had for 14
years are only brass, you know, and
have only six holes. Musicians can’t
believe what I can do with it, although
that’s rather blowing my own, well,
trumpet, isn’t it?
“The whistle cost me 2/9d., and the
most expensive one fetches 10/-. My
father played one, and my Irish uncle
danced on a door that was laid flat and
played a fife. I’m a jazz musician, but
I have to be commercial. I can play
‘The Night They Dropped a Clanger’
theme, ‘How High The Moon,’ ‘The
Happy Whistler,’ ‘The Swinging Shep-
herd Blues,’ and ‘Anthropology.’
“Flute concertos? Oh, no, not the
classics yet, although theoretically I
suppose you could. After all, Benjamin
Britten composed a work for the mouth-
organ, didn’t he? The technique? It’s
all in the blowing. The minutest amount
of air has to go through the whistle, you
see. And I’ve developed a very special
technique of fingering.
“It’s taken me about 14 to 15 years
to perfect the instrument, to get to
where I don’t think about playing it.
I can tap dance while I’m playing, keep
my feet going the whole time, you
see.
“I began with a group, then a trio,
then a duo, and finally I was on my
own. I was looking for an individual
approach as whistler, a style. No one
else in the world, other than street beg-
gars, was using the penny whistle to
earn money; it was and is a unique
act. I became less and less nervous
and more and more myself, and if
you’re yourself an audience will accept
you; if you aren’t yourself an audience
won’t.
“Finally I got on to ‘Camera One,’
a show for professionals who hadn’t
made it. It was on TV in Britain, and
the result was that I was a very big
hit, offers, more offers, and I was
launched on my career as the Penny
Whistle Man.
“I’ve written numbers for the whistle.
An old lady in Glasgow wrote and said
her husband had played a penny whistle
in the Boer War, and asked me for one.
I sent her a whistle and she forwarded
me Irish linen handkerchiefs.
“At the Silver Spade, I play ‘Edel-
weiss,’ ‘I Left My Heart in San Fran-
cisco,’ and ‘San Francisco.’ At the end
of the first performance my mouth felt
like this bedspread. Here, I’ll play
you some of the music now. The
audiences at the Silver Spade are very
nice. Audiences here are wonderful.”
And the Penny Whistle Man picked up
his whistle and whistled.
By her bootstraps
THE PRIZE for film publicity hand-
outs must surely go to Twentieth Cen-
tury-Fox for its new life story of Ger-
trude Lawrence, “Star.” “Lawrence
was a Clapham - born cockney
girl who tugged herself literally by
frayed bootstraps out of squalid sur-
roundings toward a glittering world
where eventually she became a true
queen without advantage of royalty.”
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Communism, like the Church,
started off OK, but then it became
nasty and it’s collective.
Marianne Faithfull.
The appointment of a Professor to
the Chair of Eye Health at Sydney
University is a hot ophthalmological
potato.
Dr. E. V. Waddy Pockley.
I don’t mind how strange folk are
so long as they’re clean and tidy.
Robert Graves.
Van Cliburn can have the best
trousers I’ve got.
President Johnson.
The only way to reform Canon
Law is to can it.
Father John Kavanaugh.
The dangerous precedent of ban-
ning cigarette advertising is that
established brands remain dormant.
If a new or established company
brings out a new cigarette that may
be so-called safer, it won’t be sold
because of the plain fact that you
cannot sell anything that you cannot
advertise.
Brian F. McCabe, of Foote,
Cone and Belding.
That’s the trickiest part—playing
a man who is playing a woman who
is not a woman but a man.
Sir Alec Guinness on his role in
“Mrs. Artminster.”
Communists have taken over
England, though nobody knows it.
England is lost in a Sargasso Sea
of sex, sadism, and psychedelics.
Sir Wilfred Kent-Hughes.


AS I SEE IT
Whitlam ducks
debate on
Vietnam issues
By ALAN REID
OPPOSITION LEADER Gough
Whitlam very humanly wants the con-
flict in Vietnam to be over by 1969,
when the next Federal elections for the
House of Representatives are held.
Partly because he has the normal,
decent, responsible man’s abhorrence of
war and the tragedy and suffering it
brings. Partly because he has a vested
interest. If the Vietnam conflict is over
by 1969, the elections would then be
fought on domestic issues. On these he
believes he would have a better chance
■of winning.
Until that happy day arrives, he
•clearly does not want the Labor Party
to get involved in the Vietnam dispute
any more than it has to. He has the un-
happy knowledge that the issue has
already divided his supporters and cost
Labor dearly in parliamentary represen-
tation at the last Federal elections. Last
week in the Parliament, when Prime
Minister Holt announced the Govern-
ment’s intention to enlarge the number
of Australian servicemen in Vietnam
from 6300 to 8000, Whitlam virtually
took the attitude, “If I make out that
the announcement does not create a
problem for the Labor Party the prob-
lem will go away.” His aim was clear.
He did not want the enlargement of the
Australian commitment to become an
issue in the coming Senate elections. At
a later stage, and when he was forced
to say something, he admitted this pub-
licly in the Parliament.
This might not seem a very inspiring
way to deal with such a great national
decision. But I believe that Whitlam’s
basic approach was probably sound,
within the narrow context of Labor s
electoral interest. If he came out in
flat opposition to dispatch of the extra
troops (as ALP policy as enunciated by
the ALP Federal Conference in Adel-
aide suggested he should), there was a
strong possibility that the Senate elec-
tions, for which polling day is November
25, would be fought on this issue. It
would give the Government the same
clear-cut type of issue as that on which
it won the Federal elections a year ago.
It is very hard for one side (in this
case the Holt Government) to have as
an issue something on which the other
side (in this case the Labor Party)
refuses to fight.
Whitlam’s approach was frankly
opportunist. He did not take the hostile
attitude to the enlarged commitment
that normally would have flowed from
the Adelaide ALP Vietnam decision,
which sets out that a future Labor
Government must withdraw Australian
troops in Vietnam unless the United
States accepts stringent conditions for
the conduct of the war in that unhappy
country —conditions which Labor Party
spokesmen have publicly acknowledged
would be unacceptable to the United
States’ administration. When I say
Whitlam’s approach was opportunist I
do not say it in a denigratory sense. All
politicians, even the greatest (possibly
the greatest more than most), are oppor-
tunist. They have to be. They have
two responsibilities to their supporters
—to survive and to win power. These
responsibilities on occasions demand
opportunism.
But Whitlam made one miscalculation
and one mistake.
His miscalculation was to underesti-
mate the reaction of the Labor hard-
liners on Vietnam. These hardliners
undoubtedly feel that this is one occa-
sion on which principle should out-
weigh opportunism, particularly when,
as they believe, the opportunism is
based on a misjudgment. Unlike
Whitlam, the hardliners believe that
the Vietnam issue is no longer an
albatross around Labor’s electoral neck.
Rightly or wrongly, they believe that
there has been a significant shift in
public opinion in Australia on the Viet-
nam conflict. They hold the view that
for Lsbor now to campaign against both
the war and the extra Australian com-
mitment to it would be to Labor’s elec-
toral advantage. While not anxious to
confine the Senate campaign to the
Vietnam issue, they were anxious that
it should be a major issue.
Whitlam’s mistake was his method
of evading a House of Representatives
debate on Holt’s announcement of the
enlargement of the Australian commit-
ment to Vietnam. Normally, after a
statement of such national magnitude,
the Opposition Leader takes the
adjournment. This enables a debate
to be held at some future time. Whit-
lam flatly refused to take the adjourn-
ment, even though offered it by the
Government leader of the House of
Representatives and urged publicly in
the chamber to take it by Dr. Jim
Cairns. If he had taken the adjourn-
ment he could have stalled a debate
almost indefinitely. Instead, Whitlam
drew public to the fact that
he was evading a debate. This tactic
resulted in Whitlam having his blackest
parliamentary week for some time.
His tactic enabled the Prime Minister
to accuse him —with some justification—
of “cowardice” in going outside the
Parliament to make a statement instead
of debating it face to face. Whitlam
defended himself by saying with great
spirit that he was prepared to debate
the Prime Minister on this subject on
TV, the radio, or any public platform,
ignoring that the national Parliament is
the appropriate and proper forum for
great national debates on great national
subjects between opposing Parties com-
peting for the right to govern Australia.
As I see it, Whitlam exposed himself
to the legitimate criticism (also im-
plicit in an earlier postmortem by his
own Federal Labor Party Parliamentary
Executive) that his approach was “don’t
face up to the issue it might go
away.”
In his reply to Holt, even after
being publicly reproached with not hav-
ing given the Labor attitude on such
a great national question as the dis-
patch overseas of the largest military
force in Australia’s peacetime history,
Whitlam referred oniy obliquely and
sparingly to the fact that Australian
troops were going overseas. He con-
demned the Government’s general atti-
tude to the war mercilessly, but the
closest he went to condemining the
dispatch of the extra troops was “it is
wrong for us to continue to feed a war
to which we can see no end, to which
we will not help to put an end.”
He made his parliamentary speech
after a bleak day attending party
forums. He had had the mortification
of sitting through a meeting of his
parliamentary executive in which Dr.
Rex Patterson was his only major de-
fender and in which even his normal
supporters sat silent while Dr. Cairns
and others coldly and critically dissected
his attitude and advised him that he
could not continue evading an issue of
such national importance. It was a
bad day for him. But, despite both his
miscalculation and his mistake, he may
still have succeeded in his objective,
which was to relegate the strengthening
of Australian troops to a minor position
among the issues on which the Senate
election is fought.
He may have impaired his political
image in the Parliament, but, as he him-
self has said, his primary concern is
with acquisition of power for the Party
he leads. So long as he has not impaired
his image with the electors he may suc-
ceed in his tactic of ducking in the
Senate elections an issue which he
clearly believes would put the Labor
Party at a disadvantage. However, he
may be winning a short-term advantage
at the risk of acquiring a reputation as
a man who deals with issues by pretend-
ing that they do not exist.


■
:
WtKKKKKKKKKmKKBB^^
11l
V." ■'. "\ :
If you’re wondering how we manage to cover that
many miles an hour, the answer is really
very simple. We do it by going so many places. All
at once. Just as we’re about to take off in San
Francisco, we’re landing in Hong Kong, circling over
Manila, approaching Zamboanga, serving
cocktails above Honolulu, fastening seat belts in
Australia and taxiing in to Taipei. You
can see how a thing like that adds up. So there’s
really nothing new about flying
6,000 m.p.h. We do it every day.
*
sags;
THE
6000 MPH
AIRLINE
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
For PAL flight schedules and Philippine tour information,
contact your Travel Agent or mail this coupon to:
Philippine Air Lines, 49 York Street, Sydney.
Name.
Address
My Travel Agent is
Ansett-ANA General Sales Agents for Australia.
69.208


TVfecal
test.
How many commercials can you
remember from a half hour
TV programme? Five? Ten? Fifteen?
O#
c
f? ec :
e3°/°
It’s vital for all advertisers to know the potential recall of commercials
but until last week nobody knew for sure. So GTV9 and TCN9
commissioned Audience Studies Inc., a leading international research
organisation, to study TV commercial effectiveness. They showed
similarly matched audiences a current TV programme changing
the number of commercials in the programme each time.
The results proved a hunch we’d had for years. If your commercial
is screened along with 13 others, as compared to being one of only 8,
then your chance of recall drops 53%. GTV9 and TCN9 guarantee
you greater recall because we never run more than 9 minutes of
commercials in any prime time hour although the Australian
Broadcasting Control Board allows 11 minutes.
Put your product on Channel 9 Sydney and Melbourne. Join the
list of those who realise that our uncluttered commercial policy gives
them a hidden cost-per-thousand advantage incommercialeffectiveness.
9
For full details of the audience study ring your Channel Nine Account Executive.


AUSTRALIA
Why Australia is sending
the troops it didn’t have
LAST WEEK’S COMMITMENT of
an extra 1700 Diggers to Vietnam, the
biggest military decision for 18 months,
shows the way the Government’s stra-
tegic review is heading.
One of Mr. Holt’s first decisions on
assuming the Prime Ministership was to
treble the commitment to 4500 troops
and get them a “tactical area of respon-
sibility” in which they could be their
own bosses, working with Vietnamese
provincial authorities independently of
the Americans. The extra battalion and
support elements are the first major
addition of teeth since that time a
time during which the Americans have
committed an extra 200,000 men.
The Australian Government has been
stalling the Americans as well as the
handful of domestic hawks for several
months now with an argument which
has proved specious. The American
presidential envoys Clifford and Taylor
were told quite categorically that Aus-
tralia simply did not have any extra
troops to send unless it abandoned the
peacetime rules that no regular soldier
should be asked to spend more than one
year in three in a war zone. Australians
making private inquiries were told the
same thing.
The truth seems to be that the Gov-
ernment was hedging. It wanted to keep
open the option of sending extra troops
to Malaysia. But when it started its
major strategic review it quickly be-
came apparent from position papers
prepared by Defence and External
Affairs that there was little likelihood
of Malaysia troops being needed during
the next four to six years about the
period for which the Vietnam conflict
is thought likely to continue.
There was no need to have battle-
ready troops for Malaysia or Thai-
land, for which the Commonwealth
Strategic Reserve troops are prepared.
Malaysia could be regarded as a com-
fortable “home posting.” “It’s a damned
sight more comfortable and peaceable
up there than in some of our camps
here in Australia,” one senior Army
man commented last week.
So about a month after the Ameri-
cans had been pushed off with the
story that we didn’t have the troops
to send anyway, it was decided to
send them. The word started to be put
around that a way had been found
to keep a fourth battalion overseas.
After a decent period the announce-
ment was made.
It is a coincidence that a Senate
Whitlam... keeping off Vietnam
election happens to be coming up. Some
seized on the phrase that the Gov-
ernment was making it a “khaki elec-
tion.” But the indications are that it
is likely to be a bitsy khaki-and-grey
campaign.
There won’t be any clearcut major
issue. Last week in Parliament made
it clear that Vietnam will not be the
predominant issue it was in the last
House of Representatives election.
Mr. Whitlam very sensibly regards
his Party’s “ultimatum policy” forced
on him at the Adelaide conference as.
a great liability and wants to keep off
Vietnam. There is nothing politically
to be gained by attacking the dispatch
of reinforcements, who will obviously
increase the effectiveness of the force
there.
His burdensome Left-wingers do look
like forcing the Party to make some-
thing of Vietnam. And the Liberals for
their part are obviously going to en-
courage them.
The Prime Minister has said that
the election is about the right of a
Government with a record majority in
the House of Representatives to have
a clear majority in the Senate. This
seems a counter-productive course of
argument. For there has been large
majority support for the troublemak-
ing activities of the Senate in press-
ing questions on VIP aircraft and delay-
ing increased postal charges. It can-
not be said to have blocked any major
legislation, and given the constant
threat of a double dissolution, it is not
likely to. The campaign looks like dis-
solving into a vague grey debate about
domestic issues. Mr. Whitlam will make
the most of inflation, conflicts in the
coalition, and the generally lackadaisical
nature of Government administration.
Mr. Holt for his part will be able to
make much of Mr. Whitlam’s inability
to lead his own Party, let alone the
nation. Whitlam and Holt seem to
be developing a hearty personal dis-
like for one another, a factor which
should liven up the campaign.
P.M. Holt and General Taylor ... stalling the Americans


Vietnam
When 25 percent
means 100 percent
THE COMMITMENT of an extra
battalion of troops to Vietnam, plus
tanks and helicopters, makes clear
military sense. With an increase of 25
percent in personnel, a 100 percent
increase in military effectiveness is
achieved by having one battalion cover-
ing base while two are free to
manoeuvre.
With only two battalions, the general
principle is that one is needed to
defend the base camp or be close
enough to be called in if needed. Any
operation more than about ten miles
from the base camp cannot safely
A 50-ton Centurion tank ... difficult to ambush or booby-trap
employ more than one battalion. The
addition of a third battalion plus an
extra New Zealand company will just
about double the Task Force’s capacity
for extensive operations.
Also, contrary to widely expressed
opinion last week, the Centurion tanks
will greatly increase the Task Force’s
offensive capacity, being usable over
about 90 percent of the country in all
but three months of the year. In the
wet season, when they are likely to
get bogged off roads, they will be used
as mobile artillery and for base-camp
defence.
Fifty tons in weight, they are almost
completely immune to damage from
booby-traps and will be difficult to
ambush. The armored personnel car-
riers at present in use only offer pro-
tection against rifle fire. They can be
wrecked by a mine and penetrated by
0.5-inch calibre machine-gun fire. With
tanks in support it should be possible
for our troops to engage in more
effective pursuit of the enemy, not
needing to take so many precautions.
Already the Force’s area of responsi-
bility has gradually expanded until it
takes in most of Phuoc tTuy Province.
The Americans are keen that security
should be extended into Binh Tuy, the
province which adjoins to the east of
Phuoc Tuy. They are especially keen
that the road through to Ham Tan,
the province capital, be cleared, There
will also be efforts to push the Viet
Cong out of the western coastal areas
and the rough sparsely populated areas
to the north of the camp. But the main
task of the extra troops will be to con-
solidate: to eliminate remaining contacts
between the Viet Cong and the popu-
lation, thus isolating the Communists in
remote jungle areas.
The extra eight helicopters will pro-
vide transport for the headquarters and
intelligence units. But for shifting the
infanteers it will still be necessary to
rely on the Americans’ helicopters.
Tariff policy
Coming explosion?
TARIFF NEWS IS hardly the thing
afternoon papers feature. It is very hard
to sensationalise around such an
apparently abstruse subject. But, even
if it is hard to say why, in three big
black words, tariffs are, in fact, very
sensational news, and tariff policy may
yet become Australia’s most explosive
political issue.
Last week the Tariff Board’s annual
report was tabled. In a unanimous
statement, the Government’s advisory
authority told it, plainly and fully, that
existing procedures hindered the
nation’s industrial development and
were badly out of date. Moreover, it
intended to break the present impasse
by taking its own independent initiative.
It would lay down a framework in
which tariff inquiries would have some
consistency, one for the other, and most
importantly conform to the Govern-
ment’s overall economic objectives of
full employment and a maximum rate
of economic growth. Ad hoc assessments
were no longer good enough and were
not serving the stated aims of the
Government.
The second sensational piece of news
was revealed in the tabling of a series
of 13 letters between the, Tariff Board
and the Minister for Trade and Indus-
try. In the course of these tedious and
lengthy exchanges, the Board estab-
lished the point that it will not do the
Minister’s dirty work for him. It pro-
tested at prejudged policy on a par-
ticular tariff being hinted at rather than
stated openly in the form of a directive.
In letter after searching letter, Board
chairman Alf Rattigan got the Minister
to abandon evasive replies and finally
admit that the hints were “an intima-
tion of policy from the Government to
the Board.”
The Department of Trade has been
trying to have things both ways in
recent years. It has wanted to make
tariff policy itself before the Board
inquiry opened, and yet at the same
time it has wanted to maintain the
appearance of an independent Tariff
Board. The Board has now laid it on
the line that it will no longer tolerate
these manoeuvres: either the Depart-
ment should give it a free go to conduct
an unlimited inquiry of its own or the
Department should come out in the
open and state the prejudgment of
policy explicitly for all to criticise.
Because it grants varying degrees of
immunity from import competition, the
Tariff policy shapes and plans the
structure of local industry. The Tariff
Board wants to see this “planning”
support the national objective of having
resources in industries which are most
efficient, hence maximising the rate of
industrial development.
In its annual report it said it would
no longer accept a fortuitous, haphazard
examination of industries or products
as they were referred to it by the De-
partment. It intended to classify indus-
tries according to the degree of protec-
tion they are already getting. High-
cost, high-tariff industries would not be
encouraged to expand, and would be
expected to demonstrate special bene-
fits in order to continue to receive
above-average protection. Conversely,
lower-tariff industries, being more effi-
cient in their use of resources, would
be given liberal treatment and en-
couraged to expand.
In a rare moment of candor in a
TV interview just six months ago,
Trade Minister McEwen said that the
person putting this approach “has all
the force of logic on his side.” He
admitted it would be better for the
nation. But he went on: “Governments
have to deal with things other than
pure logic.”
What he meant was that he has to


think of his Department and his Party’s
relation with industry. Under the
present system of arbitrary references
by the Department to the Board, the
Department has immense power. Since
there are always a vast number of
requests for tariff protection on the
Department’s books, it can confer
great benefits on a firm or industry
by giving its application priority. There
is the possibility that some manufac-
turers think there is a chance they
may get quicker treatment if they
happen to make a generous contribu-
tion to Party funds.
The Tariff Board proposal to estab-
lish a framework for hearing tariff
applications would obviously limit the
freedom for departmental and political
manoeuvre.
And so there is a great fight about
to begin.
The Tariff Board does have the
power to initiate inquiries without
receiving references from the Depart-
ment, but it has never in its history
done so, and would be reluctant to
start now. It asked in its annual repoit
for a reference for an inquiry into
Classification 84, which includes $lOOO
million worth of trade in metals and
machinery subjected to depression-
fixed duties of 60 percent. If the Gov-
ernment refuses this, then it will be
a clear indication that the Tariff Board
is in for a tough time.
It is highly susceptible to indirect
pressures: to being denied staff and
flooded with a sudden release of tariff
protection applications stored up in the
Department.
Mr. McEwen and officials in his
Department are very experienced in
Rattigan... tough time for Board
Public Relations, and some very nasty
things are likely to be said about the
Board. For all the courage of his
actions, Tariff Board chairman Ratti-
gan has not yet shown much inclina-
tion or ability to come out in the open
and defend himself and his Board.
The dispute has deep implications
for the future of the coalition Govern-
ment, because many Liberals, includ-
ing several Ministers, dislike the use
Mr. McEwen and the Country Party
have made of tariffs. Not only has it
been bad for the country, but bad for
them as Liberals, they think.
Unnecessary drama
JOHN McEWEN, vet-
eran leader of the Country
Party, caused a stir last week
with his announcement that
he would be off to Geneva
next month to fight for Aus-
tralia’s rights at a vital
GATT meeting. This seemed
to torpedo his plans fox-
intensive Senate election
campaigning, and it was con-
strued as a laudable instance
of “country before self.”
In fact, it could well have
been taken as an act of un-
necessary drama. As Trade Minister, he
had to go to the GATT meeting any-
way, and his statement that “the Prime
Minister agrees that I, as the Minister
responsible, should attend . . .” confirms
that and one other thing—his presence
is in no way vital to his Party in
the Senate campaign. The
Country Party automatic-
ally holds No. 2 positions on
Government Senate tickets.
All that the drama boiled
down to, then, was that while
their Leader was away in
Geneva, the two heirs-appar-
ent to future Country Party
leadership, Deputy - Leader
Doug Anthony and lan Sin-
clair, would be on trial on
their merits rather than as
second-fiddles to the fiery
McEwen presence.
The Geneva meeting, to tidy up some
agricultural products questions left
from the Kennedy Round discussions,
was identified with but had nothing to
do with that “resurgence of restrictive
sentiment” in the U.S.A., which related
to concessions to industrial countries.
Racing
Long exercise
AN AWU APPLICATION, appropri-
ate to the season, had a brief hearing
in the Industrial Commission last week;
brief only because, in seeking an award
to cover such an unusual industry as
horse-training, with an uncertain
number of respondents in six States,
the union may have a staggering
amount of work to do, and needed some
preliminary guidance from the Commis-
sion.
There have never been set pay rates
or specified working conditions for
stable employees. These have varied
widely, with some reliance on “slings”
from owners, and the use of “stable in-
formation.” The union served its log
of claims on 297 trainers of racehorses
and trotters, but admits there may be
“several thousand” of these throughout
Australia.
At first it sought permission to cover
only AWU members in the stables,
but in last week’s hearing was granted
permission to amend its log to cover
—for the first time in its history
stable employees who were not mem-
bers, and also casual hands.
The AWU’s general secretary, Tom
Dougherty, admitted during the hear-
ing before Commissioner Neil that
without this coverage discrimination
could be claimed. He said the union
would proceed to serve its claims on
all trainers, however many, but hoped
that in time they would register an
association which could be served in
future cases.
For the horse-trainers the whole exer-
cise is one of bewilderment. It seems
that they will have to register an associ-
ation under the Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Act, with a set of rules to be
approved by the Arbitration Commis-
sion. The trotting trainers have already
indicated a preference to negotiate a
settlement with the union.
If the award is granted by the Com-
missioner, it is certain that the econ-
omics and past procedures of Australian
horse-training will have to be reviewed.
Training fees, which are at present
$13.20 a week for Victoria and $16.50 a
week in N.S.W., may be increased. Will
the “slings” from successful owners
continue?
Communist Party
No dialogue
THE ATTEMPT AT a “dialogue” be-
tween the Jewish community and the
Communist Party has relapsed into
monologue and grunt.
In the beginning the Communist
Party was interested in projecting a
more liberal image and dissociating
itself from a select list of Soviet
attitudes and policies. The leaders of
the Jewish community were anxious
to have the Australian Communists
help them in the campaign to assist
their persecuted brethren behind the
Iron Curtain.
Discussions took place in which some
measure of agreement was reached that
Jews in the Soviet Union suffered from
official discrimination. One member
of the central committee of the Party,
Mr. Rex Mortimer, went so far as to
make a comparison between what he
termed the United States’ quarantine
policy toward Cuba and the Soviet
Government’s attitude toward its Jewish
citizens who showed interest in Israel.
As a result of their discussions with
Jewish leaders, the Australian Com-


munists Mr. Eric Aarons and Mr. Pete
Thomas raised the question of the status
of Soviet Jews with representatives of
the Central Committee of the Com-
munist Party of the Soviet Union, par-
ticularly the allegations that Jews were
not able to leave the Soviet to join
relatives in other countries, and that
anti-Semitic articles and cartoons were
being widely circulated in Russia and
the provinces.
More recently, however, the bonds of
dialogue began to feel the strain. In
September the chairman of the Public
Relations Committee of the Executive
Council of Australian Jewry, Mr. Isi
Leibler, wrote to Party general secre-
tary Mr. Laurie Aarons:
“. . . I have recently returned from
a lengthy trip to Israel, during the
course of which I extensively covered
the areas occupied by the Israeli Forces
as a result of the Middle East war. On
glancing through back copies of (the
Communist Party weekly) ‘Tribune,’
I was shocked at the distorted manner
in which the Middle East crisis has
been presented.
“The bracketing of the adjective
‘aggressors’ with Israelis is not a mat-
ter for debate. I can forward you
volumes of statements by all the Arab
leaders demonstrating their common de-
termination to annihilate the State of
Israel . . .”
Leibler noted the Party’s previous
statement that “when we considered the
facts justify a public expression of
our opinions we do so: further we
have presented our views to the Com-
munist Party of the Soviet Union,” and
drew attention to the powerful anti-
Semitic and anti-Zionist campaign
which the Soviet authorities have
adopted since before the Middle East
war.
The letter concluded: “I would
appreciate an indication as to where
the Communist Party of Australia stands
with regard to this matter. If on the
basis of the evidence presented you
agree that the present campaign by
the Soviet authorities to bracket
Israelis and Nazis is unprincipled and
likely to inflame anti-Semitism through-
out the world, I would express the
hope that you would be prepared to
associate yourself on the basis of Social-
ist principle with others protesting
against this campaign.
“I await your reply and wish to
assure you that as in the past I would,
if you consider it advantageous, be pre-
pared to meet again with representa-
tives of the Central Committee with a
view to further constructive discussions
restricted to this question.”
On October 5 the national president
of the Communist Party of Australia,
Mr. Ralph Dixon, replied in these
terms:
“Since our previous discussions there
have been many issues of human rights
on which we have raised our voice,
but have not heard yours. There was
the denial of human rights to the
Aborigines in the Northern Territory—
our own country . . . there is the Viet-
nam War . . .” the Party president
went on to accuse Leibler of using anti-
Semitic tactics in a letter to the “Aus-
tralian.” We are appalled at the use of
the methods of anti-Semites in restoring
the anglicised names of Jewish people
to their original form. In your letter,
Kirsner becomes Kirchner. Grinberg
becomes Greenberg. This must have sent
a shudder down the spine of those Jews
who lived through a similar experience
in pre-war Hitler Germany.”
Five days later the process of dia-
logue came to a bitter and brutal end
when Leibler answered: “Your letter
merely confirms that your policy of
dialogue is an utter sham. You have
not replied to any of the specific issues
raised. Instead, you have introduced a
host of red herrings.”
And then, “Your letter confirms that
your so-called policy of dialogue with
non-Communists is nothing more than
a stunt ... I can appreciate your
willingness to promote dialogue with
Christian ministers and laymen when
the subject under discussion is restric-
ted to vague philosophic concepts or
practically meaningless high-sounding
generalities . . . Persecution of minori-
ties in the Soviet Union and other
issues that may conflict with the poli-
cies of the Soviet leaders may produce
a bit of non-committal apologetics and
generalised clap-trap.”
Dialogue was permanently closed
with Leibler’s closing remark: “Yet
when the chips are down you have
demonstrated that you will invariably
carry out the wishes of your Moscow
masters.”
For the Party it is a case of back to
the Catholic laymen in whose hopes the
word “dialogue” still offers suggestions
of brotherly intercourse.
Copyright
Another think
THE GOVERNMENT is having yet
another think about the Copyright Bill
it introduced last May and which it
now plans to amend particularly
the clause requiring radio and tele-
vision stations to pay royalties to record
companies following some heavy
lobbying last week by both sides in
what has become a hot dispute.
So the long struggle to revise Aus-
tralia’s outdated copyright law, which
began eight years ago with recom-
mendations from Mr. Justice Spicer’s
Copyright Law Review Committee, will
not end until next year, when the
Federal Attorney-General, Mr. Nigel
Bowen, will bring his amended Bill
into the House of Representatives again
after he decides on the 100-odd pos-
sible alterations he is now considering.
Broadcasting interests have mounted
a solid campaign against the require-
ment in the Bill giving performance
rights to record-making companies that
they say could mean broadcasters hav-
ing to pay $l.B million a year to the
makers. At least 85 percent of this
would be sent to overseas manufactur-
ers. The makers replied last week
with a detailed case presented by a
four-man delegation to senior Govern-
ment Ministers claiming that the
royalties broadcasters would have to
pay would be only a fraction of $l.B
million a year, and that the clause is
vital to protect Australian rights
holders overseas.
The broadcasters seem to be win-
ning the battle; the Country Party is
reported to be strongly supporting
them and quite a few Liberals are
wondering why the Bowen Bill is so
different on this point from that
outlined by former Attorney-General
Snedden, in April last year, when he
rejected the Spicer recommendation
that payments should be made and said
Attorney-General Bowen ... 100
changes
it was not the Government’s intention,
to grant rights of public performance
and broadcasting in sound recordings.
One of the many points of dispute
between the record-makers and the
broadcasters is whether playing records
on the air promotes their sale. The
broadcasters insist that it does and
point to the huge and rising sales
volumes of pop records; the makers
claim that broadcasters play their top
pops with such frequency that sales
have often been affected by over-
exposure.
Neither side desperately needs the
money; EMI, the biggest record group
in Australia, earns profits of about 45
percent to capital, while Australian
commercial broadcasting stations last
year made a profit of $6.7 million
before tax on a turnover of only $26.5
million a very healthy rate of
return.


i
/
f
»
S' '
More about AirMarketinfl:
Your cargos a big responsibility.
That’s why we handle it ourselves
’round the world.
mm
When you ship on some airlines, you can’t be
sure who’s really handling your cargo once it’s
out of your sight. It just disappears into a
pool ... where another airline one you didn’t
ask for becomes involved.
Pan Am takes care of its own. In virtually all
the major markets we serve, 91 of them to be
specific, we won’t let anyone else touch your
cargo. We’re particular that way. We’re respon-
World’s largest air cargo carrier
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC
SYDNEY: KINGSFORD-SMITH AIRPORT. 67 1384 •
sible that way. We prefer it. We know shippers
do, too.
Our cargo personnel are the best in the business.
And their business is to move your shipments
quickly, safely. Recently reduced Pan Am
insurance rates, world-wide, prove they do.
Better than ever. Get all the benefits of the
world’s most experienced airline. World-wide. Call
your Pan Am Cargo Agent. Or call us.
World’s most experienced airline.
FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST ’ROUND THE WORLD
MELBOURNE: SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL. 63 9077


Mr Ed
The
talking Ambassador
By HARRY GORDON
THE BUS PULLED UP outside the
large red-brick Georgian building and
the driver called out, “OK, then.
Everybody out for the American
Embassy.” The tourists spilled across
the footpath and into the marble-
floored entrance, between framed
replicas of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence and the Bill of Rights. They
emerged on the other side of the hall,
trooped across a formal garden, and
reached another front door. A rich
Texan voice boomed: “Well, howdy,
folks. I’m the Ambassador, and this
here is Missus Clark. Just take your
time looking around and ask me any-
thing you want. It’d make me very
happy if you’d all accept a Texan
yellow rose and some literature about
my home State.”
Mr. Ed Clark, Ambassador for the
United States of America in Canberra,
was wearing a yachting jacket that day,
with a yellow rose in the lapel and a
watch-chain that carried a golden
miniature map of Texas; when he lifted
his arms wide or pointed to his
treasures “That there’s a Pick-ass-
ee-oh, and here’s a chart showing all
the oldest houses in San Augustine,
Texas” he revealed bright blue,
three-inch-wide braces, decorated with
reindeers.
Afterwards, the tourists marched
back to the bus, loaded with little
yellow roses, bundles of booklets, and
a mild air of bewilderment. They had
just been hit by Hurricane Ed, and
this can be an overwhelming experi-
ence. He had kissed babies, posed for
snapshots beside his elm tree “Miz
Eleanor Roosevelt planted that”
and extracted sincere, puzzled promises
from a bunch of Indonesian students
that they would visit his home in San
Augustine. Other passengers had been
treated to a series of Southern jokes
“so the President said, ‘lf you all
think General Grant’s drinking too
much, I just wish you’d find out what
brand he’s drinking . . . he’s the only
one we got who’s winning’ ” and
still others now possessed recipes for
mixing drinks from bourbon.
The next stop on the bus tour was
at the Japanese Embassy, and the dis-
embarking tourists were disappointed
to find that nobody was waiting at the
front door to greet them. “Where’s the
Ambassador?” asked several passengers
of a butler who had obviously been
told to keep an eye on the silverware
and the ashtrays . . . but the butler
remained silent and inscrutable. Nor
were the tourists howdied at the British,
the French, and the German Embassies.
At the Soviet mission’s building, the
bus did not even stop.
The bus jaunt around Canberra’s
embassies that day in 1965 had been
organised to raise money for the Red
Cross, and it was successful in every
way but one. It did not endear Mr.
Ed Clark, the newly appointed U.S.
Ambassador, to all members of the resi-
dent diplomatic corps. What the hell
was the man trying to do, some of
them asked. Turn the place into some
kind of fairground stall? Did he think


he was running for office? Mr. Clark
grins proudly now as he recalls that
the then Prime Minister, Sir Robert
Menzies, took him gently aside and
told him: “You keep that stuff up, Ed,
and they’ll throw you out of the ambas-
sadors’ union.”
In fact, Ed Clark has kept up the
practice of meeting tourist coaches; he
is, of course, the only Ambassador in
Canberra to do so. He shook hands
with nearly two thousand on that first
strenuous, memorable Red Cross day,
and his personal howdy total (after two
years in the job) is something over
14,000. So far, nobody has tried to
throw him out of the ambassadors’
union; indeed, most of his fellow-
diplomats have come to regard him
with deep affection although he is
still apt to make the more pukka of
them wince when he calls a greeting
like, “How are ya’, Charlie, y’ole hoss-
fly,” at a cocktail party.
Ed Clark, at 61, is one of the U.S.
Foreign Service’s most unusual exports,
and he is undoubtedly the leading
character in the national capital. Can-
berra possesses a well-defined Establish-
ment whose pattern of living is quite
formal, and, with the bulky exception
of Ed Clark, it has produced only two
really colorful ambassadorial characters
in recent years. One was the Malaysian,
Tun Lim Yew Hock, who disappeared
mysteriously last year for nine days
after striking up a friendship with a
Kings Cross stripper; the other was the
Indonesian, Brigadier Suadi, who in-
sisted on performing somersaults in his
garden each morning, clad only in a
sarong. Both have now returned to their
homelands, leaving Ed Clark un-
disputed as the most refreshing per-
sonality in the rather pompous,
protocol-conscious diplomatic round.
Clark is a large, 200-pound extrovert
who rambles at formal functions
through an apparently endless supply
of folksy, cracker-barrel, Texas-flavored
stories. He has been branded a clown
by some critics, and as “Mister Ed”
after TV’s talking horse by others.
He has certainly talked a lot, often in
Texan superlatives, and he has a formid-
able reputation as a backslapper; he has
dropped a few diplomatic clangers, is
reputed to own the loudest (and thus
least diplomatic) whisper in Canberra,
and has shown an almost pathological
determination to view the world
through yellow-rose-colored glasses. His
obsession with the Texas rose asserts
itself in many ways; at a conservative
estimate, he has handed out some 50,000
of them and informed diplomat-
watchers say that he has rarely been
seen in public or at his home without
one in his buttonhole. There is, in
fact, a school of thought which insists
that he wears a yellow rose in his
dressing-gown lapel. He has 850
yellow-rose bushes in his own ten-acre
garden at the Embassy, and when
these are out of season he goes to
extraordinary lengths to keep up the
supply. At these desperate times he has
scoured the whole of Australia for
roses to hand out at barbecue parties,
and has even had them flown, packed
in ice, from Texas.
Two months ago, this hefty, hearty
leader of the capital’s flower people
sponsored Australia’s first Texan race
meeting in Canberra. Events included
the Yellow Rose Maiden, the Lone
Star Flying Handicap, the Texas
Handicap, the San Augustine Im-
provers’ Race, and the Austin Progres-
sive Handicap, and the Ambassador
and his Chinese butler dispensed bour-
bon and yellow roses to special guests
in a marquee, under a flagpole from
which fluttered the flag of the Lone
Star State. The winning jockey in the
Texas Handicap received a decanter
full of bourbon, and the lucky horse
a garland of 300 yellow roses flown
specially from Texas. Some of them it
ate.
It would be wrong to describe Clark
as a discreet conversationalist at cock-
tail parties. He has been heard to say
of one nationality, “They’re not like
Australians . . . they put their hand out
to you, but it’s not for shaking.” And
again, “Y’know, if you were on fire,
those guys wouldn’t even bother to
extinguish you.” (In truth, he expressed
this sentiment a little more bawdily.)
He prefaces many remarks with, “Shoot,
man . . ~” says “you-all,” describes
himself as “Ah,” and shortens the word
“mister” to “mist” or “mizzuh.”
In a quiet way he has managed to
match his wardrobe admirably to his
personality and his vocabulary. Not
long ago he astonished natives in a
New Guinea marketplace by arriving
in a Stetson and when he adjusts
his bowler at a jaunty angle, low over
one eye, he immediately takes on the
look of an aging but enthusiastic
vaudeville comic. Apart from his Stet-
sons, whose capacities seem to vary
between seven and ten gallons, he is
not a wild dresser; but in striped pants,
cutaways, silk toppers, black tails, and
other formal gear he always gives a
mischievous, Groucho Marx impres-
sion of someone who has been playing
at dressing-up. “Funny thing about old
Ed,” says one old Canberra hand who
likes him well, “article by article,
most of the stuff he wears out here is
fairly conservative. But somehow he
manages to invest almost any formal
affair with a kind of fancy-dress atmos-
phere.”
All of these things would seem to
make Ed Clark rather unlikely ambas-
sador material and there is no doubt,
frankly, that he is. Because of this, he
has been the target of a good deal of
unsympathetic criticism. When it w*as
reported that he was having trouble
keeping up his yellow-rose supply, one
senior diplomat remarked caustically at
a cocktail party, “Oh, well . . . that’s
show business.” And another member
of his own staff, with more brittle wit
than generosity, once introduced himself
to a group of newspapermen with the
words, “I’m on the Ed Clark Show.”
It is significant, though, that most of
the criticism occurred soon after the
Ambassador’s arrival, when the general
impression was that this was a noisy,
over-jovial extrovert who had blun-
dered, by reason of a close friendship
with President Johnson, into diplomacy.
And it is even more significant that
some of his most vehement early critics
are now quite fervent admirers. The
most blistering attack of all came from
Douglas Brass, editorial director of “The
Australian,” and a columnist for the
paper. A month after Mr. Clark pre-
sented his credentials in Canberra, Brass
wrote: “He obviously has a heart of
gold, but there’s no disguising that the
new American Ambassador to Australia
is something of a disappointment. The
general impression in the capital is tha,t
if Mr. Edward Clark has any talents to
match the significance of his post, he
does his genial best to conceal them.
It is grossly undiplomatic to say these
things but diplomacy is not more
my business than Mr. Clark’s; and I
think it tragic that the U.S. adminis-
tration should have so little regard for
us as to send a folksy gladhander to
Canberra at a time of mutual delicacy,
in war, investment, and trade . . .”
Warming to his theme, Brass stressed
that Australians had been entitled to
expect “either a senior career man or
a gifted amateur in the finest tradition
of the service.” He went on: “Nice Mr.
Clark has shown us, in his first public
appearances, that we may have little
to expect from him except hearty exer-
cises in public relations. All the bally-
hoo about his likability turns out to be
true, indeed understated but lik-
ability, in this key post at this difficult
time, is simply not enough. It is no
fault of Mr. Clark’s that Australian-
American relations are regarded in the
White House in this frivolous light. He
was, in fact, reluctant to accept the
assignment, and keeps on saying, with
disarming frankness, that he is no diplo-
mat. But it should be a sobering thought
for us all that President Johnson holds
his ally in Vietnam so lightly that he
should confuse it with his own corn-
chewing Texas, to be charmed with
homespun innocence.”
Exactly six months later, on March
16, 1966, Douglas Brass wrote about
Ed Clark again. He recalled his charges
that the Ambassador was a folksy
gladhander with no talents for what
should be an important job, and he
added: “I eat my words now. Mr.
Clark, though he still loves to clown
in public, has endeared himself to
Canberra as a very shrewd operator
and genuine friend of this country. I
can do no more than acknowledge it,
and nobody has asked me to do it.”
In the past couple of years, many
other people have had cause to revise
their first unflattering opinions of Ed
Clark and it is no exaggeration to
say that he is now regarded as the
most successful Ambassador the United
States has ever sent to Australia. The
Premier of Victoria, Sir Henry Bolte,
says candidly, “No other American
representative has attempted to learn
about the country and know the
people the way Ed Clark has. Never
before has the U.S. been so well rep-


resented and, with our alliance in
Vietnam, our closer trade ties, and the
growing U.S. investment in Australia,
that representation has to be good.”
How has Clark, the clown in the
Stetson, done it? By displaying a
massive appetite for work and a de-
termination to see all over Australia’s
three million square miles, by being
totally sincere, by being closer to his
Head of State than any ambassador in
the country. He has surrendered none
of his flamboyance, and his extrava-
gant behaviour still causes a few shud-
ders among the professional diplomats;
but his overall performance has been
so impressive that a member of his
staff was recently moved to remark,
“If this guy’s not a professional, I
just hope he never loses his amateur
status.”
It is hard, of course, to estimate the
quality of an ambassador’s work. His
basic jobs are to feed information back
to his government and to build good-
will between the two countries con-
cerned. While there is no reliable gauge
available to assess the worth of Clark’s
reports, it is known that last year
President Johnson asked his Ambassa-
dors to poll the governments to which
they were assigned on whether the U.S.
should bomb Hanoi and mine the North
Vietnam port of Haiphong; Clark’s
reply was reported to be on' the Presi-
dent’s desk ten days before the next
one was received. In the field of good-
will, there ,js no doubt that the man
has been immeasurably successful; along
with all the homilies, the platitudes,
and the Texas hokum that he dispenses
comes a great deal of genuine warmth
and Australians, who normally dis-
trust wordiness, have reacted well to
him. They know that he has become a
potent salesman for Australia in
trade, in travel, in investment in his
homeland.
“I asked the President just before I
came out here what I was supposed to
do,” says Clark. “The President, he
says, ‘I want you to spread yourself
around, Ed. Don’t get stuck in no
martini belt. Don’t confine yourself to
the striped-pants circuit. I want you to
go out and meet these people. And I
want you to tell us everything about
Australia . . . what they’re thinking,
what they’re doing, how stable they are,
how friendly they are.’ ”
Certainly, in two years, Ed Clark
has spread himself around. He flew
154,000 miles around Australian ter-
ritories in 1966 and has flown another
110,000 miles this year ■ — crisscrossing
every State, visiting as far north as
New Guinea and as far south as the
Australian Antarctic base. He has talked
all the way, averaging a formal speech
every five days, working a circuit that
embraces churches, schools, Rotary
and Lions clubs, and all sorts of pro-
fessional and trade organisations; his
aides say that he has made far more
speeches than any ambassador, from
any country, in Canberra. His 14,000
visitors include a party of 50 school-
girls who were treated to coke and
sandwiches; but they also include
powerful men like Lyndon Johnson,
Hubert Humphrey, Averell Harriman,
Dean Rusk, General Maxwell Taylor,
Henry Luce, Henry Kaiser, Henry
Ford, John J. McCloy, Robert Kle-
berg, and representatives of some of the
largest corporations in the United
States. Far more important Americans
have visited Australia during Clark’s
term of office than ever before; mostly
they are personal friends, and they
seem to respect his judgment entirely.
He is credited by many Canberra ob-
servers as having been responsible for
the visit last year by President John-
son which was the first to Australia
by any American President-in-office.
He has worked hard to promote Ameri-
can investment in Australia, pointing
out that the country has a wealth of
natural resources, no capital gains tax,
a sound and expanding economy, a
double taxation agreement with the
U.S., and no restrictions on overseas
remittances. In all of his speeches, in
Australia and during eight brief trips
back to the U.S., he has plugged the
theme that America has no greater
ally than Australia . . . and he has
underlined the physical resemblance
between the Australian countryside
and his native Texas.
Clark is known to have intervened
on Australia’s behalf when U.S. Govern-
ment authorities were discussing capital
outflow restraints and.possible restric-
tions on investments overseas; several
U.S. corporations were being questioned
about programs involving the invest-
ment in Australia of sums of between
sls million and $250 million. “That’s
when I got into the act,” he confesses.
“The authorities who were doing the
questioning backed off . . . maybe just
to get rid of me.” He induced a 14-man
Texan business delegation most of
them wearing cowboy hats to tour
Australia in July, and recently per-
suaded leaders of two New York banks
and representatives of the oil, steel,
and alumina industries to offer to put
up the money for the establishment of
what looks like becoming Australia’s
first postgraduate school of business
administration. He has worked hard
this year at making the U.S. Armed
Forces an Australian customer; the idea
is that in some cases supplies for Ameri-
can troops in Vietnam and the Pacific
will be bought in Australia.
Although there is no doubt that he
is directly responsible for some part
of the swelling U.S. investment in
Australia from immense land hold-
ings like those of the Robert Kleberg
Junior’s King Ranch to insurance
schemes and off-shore oil drilling
Clark prefers not to identify himself
with any specific financial project. “His
official position prevents him joining
in the investment or from getting too
close to any one venture,” explains an
economic aide. “He sees himself more
as a lobbyist, persuading American
businessmen generally to come to Aus-
tralia sooner than they would have, to
stay longer, and to spend more money.”
In a typical piece of hard selling during
a visit home, during a dinner given by
the American-Australian Association at
the River Club, New York, in April
this year, Clark advised American
businessmen:
“Australia’s best asset (for the in-
vestor) is its highly educated, energetic,
open-minded, and technically skilled
labor force. In other words, capital in-
vestment in new industries in Australia
is little different from investment in
new industries in this country, with one
major exception the growth potential
in Australia is often greater.”
“Australia,” he says, “is destined to
be one of the richest countries in the
world. That time is only maybe 20
years away. Your iron, lead, zinc, nat-
ural gas, and bauxite will attract
people with know-how and capital.
Our people are willing to come out
and take part in this great program of
development, and they’re not trying to
skin anybody. It’s a long way from
home, and the American businessman
knows it’s going to take a lot of capital
for a long haul . . .” And he adds,
“Y’know, every problem in the Pacific
could be solved if Australia had 50
million people.” But he is diplomatic
enough not to make any suggestions
about how we should acquire the extra
millions in a hurry.
Undoubtedly, Clark’s great advan-
tage over all other ambassadors in
Canberra is his ability to communi-
cate immediately without recourse to
formal diplomatic channels with his
President. He has done this quite often.
One such instance came before Vice-
President Humphrey visited Australia
and Asia last year; when his itinerary
arrived from the State Department it
showed that Mr. Humphrey was due
to have a half day in Canberra, then
two days in Manila, two in Bangkok,
and longer periods in other Asian capi-
tals. Other ambassadors would have
had no option but to accept this itin-
erary even though the shortness of
the Australian stay might have been
construed as a small snub to the Aus-
tralian Prime Minister and Clark
was counselled by his own professionals
not to take any official action.
According to Canberra newsmen (and
there can be little doubt that in this
case they were right), Clark refused
to be advised. He telephoned the Presi-
dent, and told him, “It’s not good
enough, Mr. President. You can’t wipe
these people off like that . . . it’s an
insult! If half a day is the best you can
do, I suggest the Vice-President doesn’t
call here at all.” The itinerary was
changed, and Humphrey stayed in Can-
berra for two days. Harold Holt, who
had been in office only a short time,
was extremely grateful to Clark.
Ed Clark’s direct route to the Presi-
dent has been the cause of some embar-
rassment. One veteran Canberra news-
paperman met the Ambassador recently
in a crowded lounge at the city’s air-
port, where both were waiting to greet
visitors. Clark saw the reporter, whom


he liked, and he beamed. “Waal, fancy
meetin’ you,” he called. Then, when
the two were together, Clark lowered
his voice to the pitch of raw sandpaper.
“Got somethin’ to tell you. Y’know, I
was talkin’ ’smornin’ to the President,
and . . Suddenly the lounge was
hushed; 500 people in the airport lounge
craned forward expectantly to hear
what the President of the United States
had been thinking that morning. “What-
ever it was, it was pretty insignificant,”
says the reporter. “But when old Ed
decides to drop a name, he does it from
a great height. All I can remember is
all those pairs of eyes and ears, all
trained on Mister Ed and his noisy
whisper.”
The Mister Ed label was applied
maliciously by a few people during
Clark’s early days in Canberra. But the
man enjoys such magnificent goodwill
with just about everyone he meets that
it is now used with total affection.
Sometimes it appears in newspaper
headings, and Pressmen who attend
conferences at the American Embassy
have christened the cocktail he serves
them an Old Fashioned with a
bourbon base “Mister Ed’s drink.”
His relationship with local newspaper-
men has been particularly affectionate
ever since he played host at a Press
conference for Pierre Salinger, the late
President Kennedy’s Press secretary. On
that occasion, after the formal question-
ing had ended, Clark said to Salinger,
who is an excellent pianist: “Hey,
Pierre, what about you play a few
tunes for the boys.” Salinger obliged,
and somehow the affair developed into
a singsong, with newspapermen, Clark,
and embassy aides grouped around the
piano singing tunes like “Chicago” and
Give My Regards to Broadway.”
“That Ed Clark is so chummy and so
eager to please,” said one reporter after-
wards, ‘I reckon that if we’d asked him
to break into a soft-shoe shuffle, he’d
have done it.”
Clark’s nature is so aggressively jolly
and his desire to be loved so obvious
that it would be easy to underrate the
man. But even while he’s discussing
Texan beef—“ Shoot, man, our meat
plants don’t waste a thing . . . they
take everything from the cow except
the moo” telling Texan jokes, in-
dulging in Texan reminiscences, and
generally behaving like a Texan cari-
cature, the eyes behind his rimless
glasses are operating independently.
They are cool, level, calculating . . .
the eyes of a very shrewd man. Just
how shrewd might be gauged from the
fact that he has built up, from a stake
of $l5O in 1932, a personal fortune in
the region of $lO million, as
well as a formidable reputation as a
banker, lawyer, and lobbyist'. When he
left Texas he was chairman of the
Capital National Bank and a board
member at Texas Southern University,
and his law firm of Clark, Thomas,
Harris, Denius, and Walters has
handled the affairs of the Lyndon
Johnson family for many years. He has
been active in Democratic Party poli-
tics since the early ’thirties and has
been an active supporter of LBJ since
the pair met in 1934. At that time,
Johnson was secretary to Senator Kle-
berg, and three years later he returned
to Texas as State director of the Nat-
ional Youth Administration. In 1937,
Johnson stood for Congress and his
campaign was handled by Clark; then,
in 1949, Johnson was elected to the
Senate in a close and disputed contest.
In the legal wrangle which followed —
there were charges of vote-rigging and
claims that Johnson had no right to
stand for Senate office while he was
still a Congressman Clark acted as
Johnson’s senior legal counsel. “A lot
of people think Ed owes a great deal,
including this job, to LBJ,” says one
friend of the Clark family. “In fact, the
truth is probably the opposite. Lyndon
owes more to Clark than he could ever
pay back.” Whatever the case, there
can be no doubt that the two men are
very close; President Johnson is god-
father to one of Clark’s four grand-
children three girls and a boy, all
children of his only child, Leila. Clark
is fiercely proud of the fact that these
grandchildren are sixth-generation
Texans . . . “my family arrived in
1842, when Texas was still a republic.”
He is one of the 24 living members of
the Order of San Jacinto, membership
r ,• , • , ."r j , , ,
of which is restricted to people whose
, ... A
T 10.0 Ved m eXaS tW “ n
and 1848.
The circumstances surrounding
Clark’s appointment to his post deep
in the heart of Australia offer an
interesting insight into the making of
an ambassador. In the middle of 1965,
Australia had been without a United
States Ambassador for exactly a'year;
the job was being held down very well
by a charge d’affaires, but there were
many Australians who regarded the ab-
sence of an ambassador as a consider-
able slight. The previous Ambassador
was Mr. William C. Battle, a lawyer,
who had been a close personal friend
of President Kennedy and had served
in the Pacific with the President as a
PT commander; he had proved to be
a likable but undistinguished diplomat
and had stayed in the post for two
years. In mid-1965, Sir Robert Menzies
visited Washington to discuss the filling
of the post that had been vacant for a
Year-
' Sir Robert knew how to talk
tough,” says Clark. “He went to Wash-
ington and told President Johnson that
Australia had waited long enough for
an ambassador. The two countries had
a lo t of ties, and the Prime Minister
made it obvious that he was getting
read Y to be offended. To be fair, the
President had had a lot of things on
b i s rnind, and he simply, hadn t gotten
around to picking the right man..
' . r i§ bt > sa Y s the President.
ka nd of man you got. in mind?
f . * , want y° u , to »PP° mt a cl ? se
friend, says Menzies. Someone you ve
. ’ ,
got confidence in . . . somebody who
can ring you on the telephone and get
straight through to you.’
“ ‘How would you feel about a
Texan?’ the President asks, and the
Prime Minister says, ‘I think that would


be great ... as long as he’s a Texan
who knows you very well.’
“ ‘Mist’ Prime Minister’, says the
President. ‘I think I got your man.’ ”
On that summer day in 1965, Ed
Clark and his wife were driving from
Washington to Austin, Texas. They
arrived home to find a message asking
Clark to ring the President immedi-
ately. “Ed,” said the President, “I want
you to come right back here, and bring
Anne (his wife) with you.”
“What’s it for?” asked Clark. The
President answered, “I can’t tell you,
Ed, but it’s pretty important.” That
night Johnson introduced the Clarks
to Menzies, and told him, “I think
I’ve got your ambassador.”
“We stayed at the White House that
night and talked a lot more about the
job at breakfast next morning,” Clark
recalls. “Then my wife and I went
upstairs to talk it over. That Sir Robert
was a very eloquent, persuasive man,
but I had a lot of reservations. I kept
telling my wife I was as busy as a
bee with the law practice and the bank.
I told her I felt I ought to keep
working, and I said something about
saving for a rainy day. ‘As far as you’re
concerned, Ed Clark,’ she said, ‘it’s
raining right now. If you don’t take
this, you’ll just keep on doing what
you’ve been doing for the past fifty
years.’ I told her we’d better get on
down, because we’d kept those two im-
portant men waiting a long time.”
The couple went downstairs and had
a cup of coffee; and suddenly Ed Clark,
native son of Texas, banker, attorney,
Washington lobbyist, raconteur, ham-
burger connoisseur, and amateur
breeder of bulls, was Ambassador-
designate to Australia. “It all happened
faster than a bull’s blink,” he says.
Recently, shambling amiably around
his dining-room, living-room, “Texas
Room,” and garden, pausing often to
point out Steuben glass penguins, Drys-
dale and Nolan paintings, a husky-sled
harness he brought back from the Ant-
arctic, his tennis courts —“Charlton
Heston played there”—and a Texan
pecan tree, Ed Clark admitted frankly
that he had been very nervous when he
arrived in Australia. Interviewing the
man is like standing under a waterfall:
the torrent of words cascades all around
and it is utterly impossible to divert
the flow. Unprintable anecdotes about
Harry Truman and Senator Fulbright
fly past in company with small chunks
of Texan history and views about rail-
roads, the profit motive, and the virtues
of lobbying; but when he talks about
himself, Clark’s honesty can be quite
touching.
“I knew all the guys at the Embassy
here were professionals, and I was a
rank amateur,” he said. “I knew they’d
look upon me as a political appointee,
and I felt they would resent me. Yet I
needed them so much. I didn’t know a
thing about diplomacy ... I had no
reason to. I didn’t even know anyone
in the Foreign Service. I knew it was
important to have good manners, to be
kind and considerate to people, but I
didn’t know when I was supposed to
wear a cutaway or a silk hat. If I was
due to call in at some formal function,
say an Embassy party, I didn’t know
how long I was supposed to stay or
who I was supposed to talk to or what
I was supposed to talk about. I didn’t
know the rules of the game, and if they
had wanted to make me look a fool
those professionals at the Embassy could
easily have done that. They turned out
to be wonderfully loyal and co-opera-
tive, and they advised me well.”
The loyalty has worked both ways.
Ed Clark has 112 people on his embassy
staff, and he has made some sort of
history by entertaining all of them at
barbecues and small lunch- and dinner-
parties. He discusses every speech he
makes and conference he attends with
senior counsellors, and is usually guided
by their advice. His capacity for work
has become legendary; not long ago he
insisted on being helped by two coun-
sellors from a sickbed—where he was
suffering from a middle-ear infection
which affected his balance —to his desk.
Says his information chief, Charles
Blackman, “It was a crazy day, that.
Huong, the Ambassador’s Chinese
butler, was suffering from the same
middle-ear infection, so we called a
doctor for them both. The doctor
came in, treated Huong, saw the Ambas-
sador was at his desk, and went off.
The Ambassador couldn’t even stand
without being supported on either side.
We had to call the doctor back and
explain that he’d treated the butler
but not the boss.”
Mrs. Clark is a small (sft. 2in.)
grey-blonde woman whose gentle, rather
shy and wry manner makes her an ideal
foil for the gregarious Ambassador. She
pretends to disapprove of Clark’s almost
belligerently friendly invitations ... in
country towns like Wagga Wagga
and Coonabarabran he has been known
to announce, “If you folks ever find
yourselves in Canberra suffering from
frost-bite or snake-bite just call in on
Miz Clark and me for our bourbon
cure.” She chides him often about
“talking too big” and tells him to
remember that he is a foreigner in Aus-
tralia. But, after 39 years of marriage,
she is intensely devoted and proud. She
is an enthusiastic gardener who some-
times tackles the weeds in the embassy
formal gardens; after each trip home
she distributes wild bluebonnet seeds to
Australian friends, and large patches of
blue are beginning to appear on a
number of nearby sheep stations. She
combines active church work (they are
Episcopalians) with her hobby of
embroidery and has embroidered a
batch of kneelers for the chapel at the
Duntroon Military College.
While Mrs. Clark’s gardening, church,
and needlework activities plus a very
catholic taste in books and magazines
give her a breadth of interests outside
the embassy, Ed Clark has very few.
A non-gardener and non-golfer, he
spends just about all his waking time
in some form of embassy work; he does
keep in close touch with his Texas
banking and legal interests, even to the
point of staying abreast of all staff
adjustments. Both send frequent tape
recordings to their daughter and her
family in Greenville, Mississippi,
they often show home movies (most of
which happen to be Texas-boosters) and
entertain at barbecues which range from
the intimate to the congested. One of
the latter type was thrown, on a
property owned by a friend, during the
Johnson visit; it was attended by 400
guests and a group of friendly
kangaroos.
Ed Clark has sought out Americans
generally, and Texans specificially,
throughout his stay in Australia. He
has found them growing cotton, man-
ning oil rigs, drilling for iron ore, breed-
ing Santa Gertrudis cattle, and growing
bananas. A couple of weeks ago, on a
visit to Sydney to address the Institute
of Engineers, he heard there were two
American destroyers in town, fresh from
Vietnam. He visited the ships, shook
hands with everyone on board, and
asked his perennial question, “Anyone
here from Texas?” There is always
somebody there from Texas. This
month when Americans serving in Viet-
nam arrived for their first R and R
leave in Australia, Ed Clark was
at the airport in Sydney to meet them.
“People say to me, ‘You’re not the
Ambassador for the United States,
you’re the Ambassador for Texas,’ ” says
Clark. “I say, ‘That reminds me of the
guy who threw a rock at a cat and hit
his mother-in-law.’ It ain’t so bad after
all.”
How much longer Ed Clark will
remain Ambassador for the United
States (and for Texas) is open to some
doubt. “Just before I came out,” he
said recently, “I asked Senator Ful-
bi'ight how long an Ambassador usually
stayed, and he said a man usually had
the job during the pleasure of the Presi-
dent. Other people have said that
about two years is the normal term.”
Clark’s two years were up on August
15 this year; it is known that the State
Department has offered him three
other ambassadorships, but so far he has
chosen to remain in Canberra—at a
post which earns a salary of $25,000 and
an entertainment allowance and which
certainly costs him a great deal more.
“I wouldn’t take another diplomatic job
just for the honor of it,” he said, “but
if the President told me that I might
lighten his burden in some small way
by accepting, I’d take it.”
At this point his large face quarried
itself into a broad grin. “I used to say
that I didn’t want to go any place where
there was a language barrier,” he said.
“But my wife, a little unkindly, said,
‘Let’s face it, honey, wherever you go
with that Southern accent, you gonna
V’ind up with a language barrier.’ ” He
dug his audience in the ribs, chuckled
at some length, and said goodbye. Ed
Clark is a trouper, and like all good
troupers he likes to leave ’em laughing.
Copyright 1967 by arrangement with the “New
York Times.” Reprinted by permission.


FORUM
Let’s be Asians and barge in!
BY PETER SAMUEL
WHEN HAROLD HOLT acceded to
the Prime Ministership at the beginning
of last year, he quickly set out to
acquire a distinctive image. First it
was style: the barefooted, suntanned
fellow relaxing in his swinging chair,
surrounded by pretty daughters-in-law.
Second it was a contemporary interest:
Asia. Whereas Sir Robert Menzies had
generally overflown Asia on his way to
London or Washington and was as
concerned about the affairs of the
Middle-East and Africa, Mr. Holt
seemed immediately to have a fresh new
and relevant set of priorities.
He went off on two tours of Asian
countries to see for himself, a lot earlier
in his career than the celebrated Mr.
Sato, of Japan. He even seemed in-
spired by what he saw and it came
through in speeches he made for some
months afterwards.
“Our greatest dangers and our highest
hopes are centred in Asia’s tomorrows,”
he said on one occasion back in April.
Many hoped that these fine sentiments
would be followed up by a vigorous,
imaginative approach to our relations
with Asia. It would, of course, be
wrong to say that they were all empty
words. Some foundations have been
laid: a foreign - aid branch in the
External Affairs Department, the bold
commitment of nearly half our fighting
army to Vietnam, membership of the
Asian Development Bank, and a series
of visits by Asian leaders.
But there has been something badly
lacking in the way of follow-through.
First a complete lack of initiative. All
the exciting developments toward
regional co-operation in our part of the
world in the past two or three years
have occurred without once Australia
playing anything like a catalytic role.
We’ve just gone along with the rest.
The big Aid-Indonesian grouping is
known as the Tokyo Club, because it
was Japan which sponsored it; ASPAC
was a product of Korean initiatives,
ASEAN of Mr. Adam Malik’s diplo-
macy, and the Asian Development Bank
the joint product of Japanese, Ameri-
can, and Filipino urgings.
What the hell’s holding us back? If
we were going to be “Asian” we should
act it, and barge in. If there is one
thing we must erase from our national
consciousness it is the old myth that we
are a small country which cannot there-
fore swing much weight. This self-
deprecating nonsense, understandable in
New Zealanders, is plain quaint coming
from Australians. In economic terms
we are one of the super-powers of the
Asian region, exceeded in strength only
by the prodigious Japan, but almost
equal in GNP to the ultra-populous
India and far larger than any of the
other nations of the area.
We have the manufacturing industry,
the surplus of agricultural produce,
the scientists and research facilities,
engineers, teachers,' and doctors to
make a major impact in the region.
And our region is one of the most
promising in the world. Talk of rich-
getting-richer and poor-getting-poorer
and cliches about population-outrun-
ning-food-production are misleading as
statements of what is happening around
here. They tend to be statistical aver-
ages got by throwing in the chaotic
economies of inflation-wretched Latin-
America and anarchic Africa. The
Asian average is better than most, even
though over the past few years it has
been brought down by the poor per-
formances of the giants India and
Indonesia. Otherwise, hermit-Burma
and Peking-oriented-Cambodia aside,
Asian countries have shown remarkably
healthy rates of economic growth. Only
the Philippines is struggling. Laos and
South Vietnam, of course, haven’t been
given a chance by the Hanoi crusaders.
We must first remedy two horrible
blotches in our current aid performance.
One is our reticence in joining in the
Agricultural Development Fund of the
Asian Bank. Mr. Hasluck and other
Australian ministers have repeatedly
hammered the theme that a strong agri-
cultural basis is more important than
anything else as a prerequisite to faster
overall economic development. They
seem to be right, too. The old Indian-
Soviet model of building gigantic steel
mills and impressive hydro-electric dams
is thoroughly discredited. Here then in
the Agricultural Development Fund is
just what we have been waiting for.
The second blotch is Indonesia the
greatest transformation in the ’sixties
from dangerous chauvinism toward
symbiotic pragmatism, but all of which
could be undone if we don’t give it full
support. Our ssm. grant this year is
quite miserable both in relation to
Indonesia’s need and our capacity. If
we can spend s9om. on the development
of New Guinea and ssom. a year on the
defence of Vietnam, we should be able
to spend at least s2sm. on Indonesia.
Japan is putting in s6om. a year. Why
not a real government effort to get
Australian business to move into Indo-
nesia to the mutual benefit of the two
countries? We need regular shipping,
decent telecommunication links, and
perhaps tax concessions and investment
guarantees to firms putting money into
the place.
If all this is going to cost money,
let’s think about where we might save
something. India, where we sink sllm.
a year, is the darling country of west
European and North American liberals,
but who would notice if we quietly cut
our commitments there? We have stood
by them through their three years of
droughts and the Chinese invasion. We
might decide that that is enough. Singa-
pore doesn’t need aid. It needs trade
access and investment: access to Aus-
tralian markets by selective trade
liberalisation; and investment, possibly
encouraged, as suggested with Indo-
nesia, by tax concessions to firms work-
ing there.
Malaysia, Thailand, and South
Vietnam should be areas where we give
priority to defence aid and defence-
oriented civic action. These are the
places where we should be thinking
through the deeper implications of the
need for positive counter-insurgency.
Better always prevention than attempts
to cure. So we should be learning from
Vietnam the way to deliver a sophisti-
cated mix of military, police, economic,
health, and political support.
Our military men —the Grahams and
the Serongs—have developed a unique
and highly respected, distinctively Aus-
tralian approach to this from their
position within the military. Their ideas
must be spread so that their philosophy
breeds a corresponding response in
other establishments, generating some-
thing of a co-ordinated program for
protecting our neighbors against the
assault of the euphemistically titled
people’s wars of liberation.
Finally, regionalism is the thing we
must get with. ASEAN and ASPAC
are two institutions in which we must
start to play a positive role. The first
is compact enough to be got working
at something specific, the second has
the military and economic power, but
unfortunately it is saddled with com-
plexities and political inhibitions.
SEATO should be scrapped as soon
as possible. ASEAN might eventually
become a means for developing a
counterbalance to two of the problems
which worry its members: first the
developing economic predominance of
Japan. We might work with ASEAN
countries on limited free-trade arrange-
ments and harmonisation of industrial
development to counter this.
Common worry number two is in-
surgency. Here we might take an
initiative by sponsoring a regional
counter-insurgency academy to provide
joint research facilities and train to-
gether officials and soldiers of Malaysia,
Singapore, Thailand, Australia, Indo-
nesia, and the Philippines. Developed
and evolved, this might be far more
relevant to the real problems than
imitative, half-hearted attempt to take
what the retreating Little Englanders
leave behind.




ggCT RIJILDINj?
fa
FUND
Funds guaranteed forwithdrawal
up to $lO,OOO per investor
No need to
tie up
your money
for a
fixed period
to earn at
NET P.A. (current rate)
INVEST WITH THE
N.S.W.
PERMANENT’
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
There is no fixed period required for you
to earn a secured, safe 6% net p.a.
return. Withdrawals may be made easily in
full, or part, without loss or penalty of
earnings.
Make a sound investment with Australia's
leading permanent building society, with
assets of $40,000,000, and see your money
grow with safety.
No costs or charges • Starts earning from
first day • Earnings paid twice yearly, June
and December.
FREE INVESTMENT PACK GIVES YOU ALL
DETAILS—SEND YOUR COUPON NOW OR
PHONE:
Bondi Junction Branch: 5A Bronte Road. 38-5259
Chatswood Branch: 797 Pacific Highway. 419-2261
TO: N.S.W. PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.,
"Co-operation House,” 125 Bathurst Street
(between Castlereagh and Pitt Streets), Sydney.
Phone 61-8721. Please mail me your new
investment Pack, without obligation to me.
Name
Address
_ B
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY
THE LEGEND OF TOM THE CHEAP
NEXT WEEK the ratepayers of the
City of Perth will decide whether or
not they want Thomas E. Wardle as
their Lord Mayor, better known in the
West as Tom the Cheap Grocer, who,
since 1955, has grown out of a small
corner grocery to become Australia’s
foui'th-biggest food retailer. His is
among the country’s 100 biggest com-
panies, with 165 stores, a pre-tax profit
of $1.7 million, and a simple formula
that has changed—and is still changing
—Australia’s price structure.
Evidence of his far-reaching effect
is put forward in a new book which has
come out, coincidentally, in the middle
of the election campaign. “Distribution
of Groceries, Economic Aspects of the
Distribution of Groceries with Special
Reference to Western Australia” * is a
drably named but bright and well-pre-
sented academic study written between
1963 and 1965 by Douglas Briggs and
Lesley Smyth when they were lecturing
at the University of Western Australia.
They have been impressed as much
by the Tom legend as by the Tom tech-
nique, for he is the despair of the
Organisation Man, the Image-Maker,
and all the Rotary-pinned grey-flannel-
suited gentlemen who normally occupy
such positions as his. Tom Wardle not
only gives away ridiculous amounts of
money but he gives it away anony-
mously, sacrificing all the image-build-
ing potential. Like his Rotary contem-
poraries, Tom’s word is his bond . . .
only Tom takes this quite literally and
is tantalisingly tardy about signing
anything.
Briggs and Smyth record with wonder
this memo-and-signature-free aspect of
Tom Wardle in their chapter on him:
“His method of getting things done
promptly may be illustrated by two
interruptions to our conversation, which
•occurred in the space of ten minutes.
A warehouse worker came in and re-
ported a broken switch. He was handed
a five-pound note and was asked to buy
a new one and install it. The telephone
rang and Mr. Wardle wrote on the back
of an .envelope ‘500,000.’ He per-
formed a few calculations and converted
the half million into a monthly ‘rent’
of £4OOO (10 percent on an investment
of £500,000 is £50,000 per annum).
He remarked that this was ‘too much
for groceries but there were other possi-
bilities,’ accepted the offer and achieved
the headline on the front page of the
‘Weekend News’ —‘Tom the Cheap Buys
Sandovers Site, Half-Million Pound
Deal.’ We then continued our conver-
sation about butter prices.”
This affected newspaper reporters of
the deal—from the other end where, for
a fortnight, the Sandovers people had
been insisting the news not be pub-
lished; Tom had agreed to buy, they
said, but he hadn’t signed anything.
At the time this seemed hardly believ-
able, but the Briggs-Smyth report from
Tom’s office and similar stories since
then confirm that the epidemic of nail-
biting within Sandovers was genuine.
At the time he said he was not
greatly concerned whether or not Perth
people bought non-groceries from him;
his aim was to change the price struc-
ture of the city. And he acknowledges
that, while he has had some effect on
the market for the goods he can get, he
cannot get a range wide enough to
make a total impact. “I can’t buy many
electrical goods, ladies’ stockings, foot-
wear—not even thongs.”
In this fight to get goods from manu-
facturers he sometimes uses his “Tom’s
Weekly,” a cheaply produced offset pub-
lication thrown over 134,000 fences
every weekend. “This is mainly for my
own advertising, but when the time
comes when I need badly enough to use
it as a weapon, then I’ll use it.” One
such case centred on a hat-making firm
which bowed to pressure from other
buyers and reneged on an understand-
ing that it would sell to Tom. He
enlarged the letter and ran it in “Tom’s
Weekly,” covering the whole page.
One of the antagonistic trade maga-
zines, in analysing the Tom symbols
and trade-marks, found them to have
all the ingredients needed to make
people look, stop, buy, and talk. Briggs
and Smyth say of this: “The image of
Tom as a lone wolf, fighting other
chains, has been worked to devastating
advantage by Tom in his advertising
and publicity. The signature of his
advertising has been a caricature of a
convict clad in prison garb, styled as
Australia’s ‘worst price-cutter’ and
backed by slogans such as ‘competitors
say he’ll ruin us,’ ‘customers love him,’
and ‘Tom has 2500 specials all the
time.’ ”
Is the message for the image-makers
that shunning publicity, in fact, creates
the kind of word-of-mouth publicity
that all publicists aspire to?
Much of his advertising is prestige
advertising—for example, a Keats poem
on the back cover of the highbrow
quarterly “Westerly,” which is remark-
able for a Cheap Grocer. The same
paradox clouds the questions of why he
continues to expand, and particularly
w'hy he has overruled his introvert in-
stincts to stand as Lord Mayor. Briggs
and Smyth answer this by saying the
key to his refusal to compromise with
orderly marketing was “his conviction
the consumers genuinely benefited
from lower grocery prices. The profit
motive alone would not explain it . . .
He differs from most of his contem-
poraries who tend to be willing to com-
promise and view things from the manu-
facturer’s point of view.”
There is a curious mixture of prag-
matism and altruism in Mr. Wardle’s
comment on all this: “What I’m doing
is right. It’s right that people should
get their goods as cheaply as possible.
I’m not doing this because I’m an
honest and upright fellow, although I
try to be these things. I’m doing it
because it’s the way to go places. Of
course I’m in it for the money, but I’m
not in it for the millions; my accoun-
tants keep saying I have to shed it be-
cause of probate and so on. Yet while
this is right, everyone says I’m always
wrong. This is what bugs me.” And
he slapped his big and cluttered desk in
a gesture completely out of character
with such a man. “Every trade paper
you pick up is tearing into me. Yet I
know I’m doing the right thing.”
Tom Wardle is unlikely to win more
favorable coverage in the trade papers,
with their gospel of orderly marketing,
while his whole operation is heresy to
them. In Western Australia the word
“Tom” has become an emotive word,
almost like “mother,” “sex,” or “war”;
everyone has his fervent belief about
this man and what he stands for.
Most voters will be seeing Mr.
Wardle in Press pictures or on television
for the first time. He is a slow-talking,
old-fashioned-looking man with centre-
parted hair. He wears a worried look,
but the furrows turn to crinkles when
the remarkably warm brown eyes smile.
He looks and talks more like a grocer
than a tycoon, and one member of a
rival campaign committee who was
approached also to join Mr. Wardle’s
group admits that the choice was made
finally on the basis of pure snobbery.
On another council it might be different,
but the City of Perth —with its top-
heaviness in orderly marketed business
and orderly gardened suburbs —is un-
likely to vote in Tom the Cheap Grocer.
A defeat would help rather than
hinder his business, which has had a
snowball effect on Australian prices.
This is reflected in a 1965 article in the
trade magazine “Retail Week”: “The
history of price-cutting started more
than six years ago in Western Aus-
tralia when Tom the Cheap Grocer
slashed prices of major brands in his
fast-growing chain of stores. It is now
common knowledge that every cigarette
manufacturer did his best to stop Tom
by withholding supplies in accordance
with a stop-list agreement in force at
that time. It is equally common know-
ledge that Tom employed ingenious and
successful methods to bypass the black-
list. When Tom expanded his chain,
first to South Australia and later to
Victoria, he met fiercer retail opposition
than he has previously encountered. In
Victoria, particularly, rival chains met
him head-on by price-cutting cigarettes
themselves—even before Tom had got
established. The war broke out in
earnest.
“Despite sincere efforts by manufac-
turers to keep an effective stop-list
system going, G. J. Coles and other
stores insisted on price-cutting, taking
the attitude that they were forced into
it by the necessity of meeting strong
competition. The stop-list or ‘orderly
marketing’ system finally burst apart at
the seams when the Federal Retail
Tobacco Traders’ Association decided
that the system would not work if
applied to national chains. One by
one, manufacturers reluctantly agreed
to supply Coles and other price-cutters.
Rothmans, it appears, was the last
manufacturer to do so . . . An atmos-
phere akin to ‘holier-than-thou’ purity
prevailed in New South Wales until the
very moment Tom the Cheap Grocer
opened last September (1964). And
then, as one keen student of the grocery
market observed, ‘all hell broke loose.’ ”
Tom’s four-State chain will be ex-
panding into Queensland, he says, some
time next year; he has four outlets
there lined up. He has no plans at this
stage to expand beyond the West with
his “Other” stores. From his 165 shops
his accountants estimate 1966-67 net
profit at $1,660,000 —$800,000 earned in
the home State, $780,000 in South Aus-
tralia, and $40,000 each in Victoria and
N.S.W. This has come from a turnover
of about $45 million.
There is a lot of waffle talked about
Tom Wardle; Briggs and Smyth list
four common fallacies: (1) That his
goods are not cheap, but propaganda
makes it seem they are; they refute this
with comparative tables. (2) That he
sells below cost, ruins competitors, then
ups his prices. (3) That*he exploits
cheap labor, hiring girls at 16 and
firing at 18. (One of his secrets IS
low-cost labor, but this is mainly
married women store managers. (4)
That he is simply front-man for another
organisation.
Although such backing would seem
to have been necessary to bridge the gap
between North Perth corner grocery
and chainstore owner, Mr. Wardle
insists “there never was any backer.”
He used his ex-Service deferred pay to
buy his first shop, and this was aug-
mented by an endowment to his wife;
yet he put up only about $5OO to back
his “buy, sell, and pay” plan. To
succeed against resale price mainten-
ance, he was a David against Goliaths.
But he succeeded so well that the per-
centage of groceries handled in the West
by big-turnover stores increased from 16
percent in 1948 to 41 percent the year
after he set up.
Because the response to his idea was
so overwhelming, he had no alternative
to fast expansion. This was primed, in
turn, by the publicity given to his cloak-
and-dagger purchasing expeditions
against the manufacturers who refused
to sell to him. He had to buy big and
this forced him to sell big, so that
expansion became inevitable.
Wages take up the biggest slice of his
cake, but this accounts for only 4 per-
cent; 1 percent goes on advertising, 1
percent for rent, leaving between 2 and
3 percent for other operating expenses
and 2 percent profit. Although he says
he is left only 10c in the $, he is still
an extremely rich man. His personal
extravagances are few, but include a
1967 gold-colored air - conditioned
Cadillac which he treats like a new
toy.
While he will open his accounts and
bank-books, Tom Wardle refuses to
comment on what he gives away. Occa-
sionally big donations are publicised as
part of an organisation’s routine. But his
direct and indirect gifts to the Church
and the University have been unknown.
The Anglican display at the recent
Perth Royal Show was in Tom’s
pavilion, and he liked it so much he has
made the pavilion available for future
shows. He has financed a church pub-
licity unit and, observing the amount
of work taken on by his close friend the
Archbishop, the Most Rev. George
Appleton, has put up the money for the
Archbishop to have a personal chaplain
—a generous and thoughtful gesture
from one who has had to build and
maintain a vast business almost entirely
on his own efforts and leadership.
* The Distribution of Groceries. Doug-
las Briggs and Lesley Smyth. Univer-
sity of Western Australia Press. $6.40.


GRAVES, WHERE IS
THY VICTORY?
By CHARLES HIGHAM
SURPRISINGLY RESERVED, cau-
tious, uncomfortable, and rather frail,
Robert Graves spoke in a subdued voice
against a background it was odd to find
him in: a house as typically suburban-
modern as an Ideal Homes exhibit, im-
personal as a store window, all pastel-
toned armchairs, polished floors, scatter
rugs, and model kitchen glimpsed across
the room; only a handful of books on
the shelves, no visible objets d’art, and
windows looking down on a Lovely
View of rolling scrub and gums.
In the Lindfield lounge-room, and
later at the Town Hall, Graves dis-
closed the contradictory nature one
knew from his writings: at once accom-
modating and inviting on the surface
and essentially fixed, hard, and un-
wavering; rearguard and reactionary,
his moral tone less brigandish than
staunchly bourgeois, his verse harking
back more than two and a half cen-
turies in style, his attitude to twentieth-
century writing deliberately, crustily
perverse, preferring minor traditionalist
poets like Reeves and Cameron to
Yeats and Eliot.
He began the conversation at Lind-
field by talking about his village home
in Majorca, and about—the note of
oddity was struck right away a
basin he owned “up which the devil
came to tempt the local saint.” (“I
don’t know how he succeeded in doing
so, because if she were ever asked to a
day of festival she would faint with dis-
may, and she used to put sand in her
soup to make it taste even more dis-
gustingly. Occasionally, the sink gets
stopped up and we invoke the saint
and it is immediately cleared.”) A
moment later, without preamble, Graves
plunged into a ghost story: two friends
of his had seen the ghost of a man on
a mule riding down some steps in
Majorca (“Whether he broke his neck
at the foot of them or not, I’m un-
certain.”) And he added: “There is,
in a house I own, a young man who
goes up to the attic to see his girlfriend.
He is dead, and he goes up stairs that
are no longer there. It is very awkward
for him, he must have been a nice
chap; I don’t think he can have killed
anybody, somebody must have killed
him. I only feel ghosts, I don’t see
them. But there, let’s not talk about
ghosts any more.” He glanced round the
room. “There aren’t any around here,
are there?”
Suddenly, via a reference to Egypt—
where he had encountered afreets, or
black imps, in a house in Heliopolis
Graves said: “Nasser was among my
pupils in Egypt, so I’ve a lot to be held
responsible for.” And that reminded
him he had also taught Lester Pearson,
Prime Minister of Canada.
Graves’ father had been an Irish
songwriter, “born in the year that
Melbourne’s Botanical Gardens were
first laid out —1846 —and the year of
the potato famine.” (Graves’ grand-
father had been Chief of Police in
Dublin, and responsible for a rather
rough keeping of order there: “I’m
rather ashamed of that.”) The songs
included “Father O’Flynn” and “Trot-
ting to the Fair” and “there were other
poets in the family. We are a terribly
distinguished family, really.”
Had he written his first poems as a
child, or later? “If you really want to
know what my first poem was, I did it
Robert Graves ... “scrape away”
at the age of six, and it went: ‘Two
little flowers/Sat on two towers.’ I
probably illustrated it. My first pub-
lished poem appeared in 1911. It was
an English example of a Welsh verse
form of Bardic origin, and my father
published it in a book about Welsh
poetry. The first guinea I got for a
poem was from ‘The Spectator.’ ” Had
any literary figure encouraged him? “I
didn’t want any encouragement.” The
eyes flashed with pride. And had he
met poets in World War I?
“Siegfried Sassoon was in my com-
pany. He was terribly brave and ter-
ribly funny, and had not yet become
a convert to Catholicism. We were in
the trenches together on the Somme.
On the post-war period I’ve told the
whole dreary story in ‘Goodbye to All
That,’ which is now a must for English
people who want to matriculate, and I
feel rather deeply silly in retelling it
now.” What about the post-war figures
of literature? “I was the only person
who said at the time it came out that
‘The Waste Land’ was a literary land-
mark. And I liked Tom Eliot, but
after that he wrote only a couple of
poems that were any good. ‘The Four
Quarters,’ for instance, is thoroughly
artificial.
“Pound, I first read in 1910 in ‘Poetry
Chicago,’ and I wrote a satire on him
at the time. I always maintained he
was no good, and finally he came out
in public and said he was no good.
“He used the chip on his shoulder
as a crutch on which to walk. The
Cantos make no sense except as the
reflection of a thoroughly decadent
society. When Robert Frost was
asked to comment on Pound get-
ting the Bollingen Prize, he said,
‘I hope he spends every last penny
of it and then they shoot the son
of a bitch as a traitor.’ And I
asked Frost why he had got Pound
out of St. Mary’s Hospital, where
he’d been incarcerated. And he
said, ‘Because I didn’t want him to
become a martyr!’ ”
With Eliot and Pound biting the
dust, whom should one, in the
twentieth century, admire? “Hardy
was a real poet. Frost was, too,
though he was a bit naughty at
times. But he was good. Cummings
could be corny, but I admired him.
That’s three to start with, and you
can’t expect more in any period.
I admire James Reeves, who has
written at least five very good
poems, and Norman Cameron.
The best poet of the ’twenties and
’thirties was Laura Riding. When she
dies no one will prevent her name from
flying up into the headlines.”
I asked Graves about the creation of
a poem. “It flashes into my head com-
plete but amorphous and then it’s a
question of giving features to the amor-
phous mass. You’ve got to scrape away
some of the outside to get to the thing
underneath.
“It may turn it into something
rhymed or into something not. The
least number of drafts for a poem is
three and the most is 35. The average
is about 12. In longhand. I can’t type,
which has been my saving. Prose, I
take five drafts of, the first is a mess,
the second is tidier, then I mess it up
again, then it gets typed, then I mess
up the typescript, then it’s typed up
finally. After that, just the occasional
comma. I don’t work set hours, just as
it comes. And now I’m supposed to
have some rest. Have you had enough?”


OVERSEAS
Stop the draft —6000
Americans want to get off
THE ORGANISED PROTEST against
conscription for military service in Viet-
nam which was staged at the weekend
in cities all across the United States was
more widespread and better co-
ordinated than previous demonstrations
of this kind. It culminated in Wash-
ington D.C. on Saturday, where more
than 50,000 people marched on the
Pentagon and clashed with 2500 police
and troops as hundreds of American
youths burnt their draft cards.
The principal organisers of the pro-
test, planned to take the form of block-
ing the doors of the Department of
Defence as a symbolic harassment of
the “war-making machine,” head a
coalition of about 100 anti-war groups
called the National Mobilisation Com-
mittee to End the War in Vietnam.
Naturally, it is being alleged that this
is infiltrated by Communists. But the
protest, like its predecessors, has highly
respectable support, including that of the
320 signatories of “A Call to Resist
Illegitimate Authority,” which has
appeared in newspapers and magazines
recently. The signatories include pro-
fessors, writers, and clergymen; the
latter propose to offer sanctuary in their
churches to conscientious objectors and
those who help them in their struggle
against service in the armed forces.
The main part of the latest anti-
draft drive has been to disrupt military
induction centres and local selective
-service offices with large numbers of
young men trying to turn in their draft
cards (registration papers). Others are
Outside the Pentagon, burning draft
cards held aloft like candles
burning them, an illegal act under a
law passed by Congress in 1965; its con-
stitutionality is to be challenged in the
Supreme Court. The supposedly non-
violent character of the demonstrations
has been frustrated by the police in
several places, notably, Oakland, Cali-
fornia, where the authorities were
notorious for their rough treatment of
previous peace marchers from the Uni-
versity of California at nearby Berkeley,
a famous centre of dissent.
Estimates vary as to the actual
number of young Americans who are
determined to resist conscription, even
if it means a jail sentence or going to
live in Canada—or Cuba —for ever.
(While the maximum sentence is five
years, most men are being sent to jail
for two years and eight months.) The
Quakers’ Central Committee for Con-
scientious Objectors says that its latest
Defence Secretary McNamara watching
the anti-war demonstrators
figure shows 46 men in civilian jails; its
committee thinks that between 3000
and 7000 have left to take up Canadian
citizenship. Twelve men, of whom the
best known is Captain Levy, are known
to be in the military stockade for hav-
ing refused orders involving the war.
The National Lawyers’ Guild, which
handles draft resistance cases, puts the
numbers much higher, however. At
the end of June, 6000 men of draft age
had registered as conscientious objectors,
although by no means all of these have
been granted that status by the Gov-
ernment.
The U.S. Presidency
Counter-attacking
the critics
AMONG THE DEFENDERS of Presi-
dent Johnson’s policy in Vietnam, Mr.
Dean Rusk, the Secretary of State, is
the most eloquent of those who are
really convinced and the most con-
vinced of those who know how to ex-
press themselves. His last news con-
ference was striking- not only for the
vehemence and anger of his sallies
against the critics but even more for
the large and sombre geopolitical set-
ting in which he placed the conflict in
Vietnam.
What he said was a shock to many
people who had become absorbed in the
legalisms and the tactical points of the
running debate:
“Within a decade or two, there will
be a billion Chinese on the mainland,
armed with nuclear weapons, with no
certainty about what their attitude
toward the rest of Asia will be . . .
From a strategic point of view it is
not very attractive to think of the
world cut in two by Asian Communism
. . . These are vitally important mat-
ters to us, who are both a Pacific and
an Atlantic power.”
Immediately Mr. Rusk was accused
of having conjured up the old bogy
of the yellow peril. This charge he has
indignantly repudiated, indicating that
he particularly resents the racial con-
notations that hang about the phrase
“yellow peril.” Certainly he is no
racist.
Mr. Rusk believes that South Viet-
nam has got to be held as part of a
strategy of containing China and that
this is a vital national interest of the
United States. As a matter of fact, this
has been his settled opinion for many
years. Further, Mr. Rusk’s views corres-
pond to a continuous thread that con-


nects the decisions of past Administra-
tions with those of President Johnson.
A State Department official observed
this week that President Kennedy’s
decision in 1961 to make a stand in
South-East Asia “was dictated in large
part by geopolitical considerations re-
volving around China. President
Johnson, in his speech at San Antonio,
Texas, on September 29th quoted both
President Kennedy and President
Eisenhower on the strateß'e neeess.ty
of holding South Vietnam.
„. , .
Other members of the Administration
and leading Party men have also been
speaking around the country in a con-
centrated counter-attack on the critics
of the policy in Vietnam. Without much
doubt, this counter-attack was prompted
by the evidence of the growing unpopu-
larity of the war which the members
of Congress brought back from their
districts when they returned to Wash-
ington in mid-September after their
Labor Day holiday. An effort to rally
the Democrats could hardly be put off
much longer.
Curiously enough, the Republicans
have not been having an easier time
of it. They feel that the chance of
defeating Mr. Johnson next year lies
before them if they can work out how
to do it. But the question of whether,
and in what direction, to make a
political issue out of the war confuses
and divides them. To many of the
leading Republicans it would go against
the grain to come out for a compromise
peace or a scaling-down of the war in
circumstances that would amount to a
national setback. Some of these, like
Senator Dirksen, Governor Rockefeller,
and, indeed, the old General Eisen-
hower himself, see it as the only proper
course to back the President and the
Armed Services and keep the war out
of politics. This attitude is not confined
to the more conservative Republicans:
Senator Hugh Scott, of Pennsylvania,
an undoubted Liberal has lak , n his
stand on it. Some of those on the right
of , his like Mr . Nixon a B nd
r> ,
Governor Reagan, of California, differ
with it only t 0 the extent that th
favor p roseC uting the war more ruth-
lessly> with fewer holds barred,
The other group holds that, since the
war is unpopular, unsuccessful, and* a
drain on nat i o nal energies that are
needed elsewhere, the Republican party
ought t 0 campaign next year with the
promise to stop the bombing of North
Vietnam and negotiate a peace. Lately
the numbers in this group have grown,
and there are some in the other camp
( such as> per haps, Governor Rocke-
feller) who might join it yet. But, how-
ever an anti-war Republican candidate
might fare against President Johnson
in an appeal to the country at large, it
is hard to see how he can collect the
Republican Party behind him. At pre-
sent the Republican notables find them-
selves on either side of a middle posi-
tion which is occupied by Mr. Johnson
himself. Raucous and deeply felt as
the differences are among the Demo-
crats, they may find it easier than the
Republicans to close ranks for the elec-
toral battle.
A new phase in Hong Kong’s troubles
Extremists ignore Peking moderates
SOUTHERN CHINESE extremists,
led by a Cantonese cadre which is now
the hidden boss of the Anti-Persecution
Struggle Committee, today dominate
the communist revolutionary movement
in Hong Kong.
The powers of Peking’s “moderate”
appointees have been drastically cur-
tailed. Repeated Maoist instructions
from the mainland to “fight with
words, not weapons” have this month
been flagrantly flouted. The harass-
ment of Hong Kong has entered a new
phase.
In the past week overworked
explosives experts have detonated or
defused most of the 180 genuine bombs
planted in the Colony, but four people
have been killed and 80 others injured.
On the uneasy border with communist
China the British have barricaded the
road bridge at Man Kam To, across
which Chinese troops and the Gurkhas
faced each other earlier last week, fol-
lowing the abduction into China of a
British police inspector.
Lord Shepherd, Minister of State at
the Commonwealth Office, whose
arrival in Hong Kong last weekend was
the ostensible pretext for a new and
sudden outburst of communist violence,
is believed to have urged patience on
frustrated Colonial authorities who find
themselves in a cleft stick. Loyal
Chinese advisers are claiming that firm
action and 40 arrests would probably
restore peace tomorrow. Some officials
favor banning two or three more com-
munist newspapers in the Colony. But
a similar ban imposed in August led
to the burning of the British Embassy
in Peking, and many feel that nothing
must be done that might endanger the
25 British hostages in Chinese hands
—the remaining members of that Em-
bassy and their wives.
Meanwhile the shake-up in local
communist organisation in Hong Kong
has left the “Peking group” in the
Bank of China with the limited tasks of
earning foreign currency for the main-
land and supporting the Left-wing
propaganda movement in the Colony.
The communist Press, whose labyrin-
In Hong Kong, explosives experts are
kept busy. This haul included a cache
of rocket bombs
thine offices and proliferating personnel
conceal a hard core of revolutionary
extremists, last week demanded the
total “mobilisation and organisation of
all students throughout the Colony.”
Unlike the workers, Left-wing
students have no family responsibilities
and say they have nothing to lose in
a corner of China in which most
Chinese are poor, second-class citizens.
In 30 years’ time, the lease on the New
Territories expires, and the frontier of
communist China will be down to the
outskirts of urban Kowloon. The young
are sure, therefore, that most of the
Colonial enclave will revert to China
in their lifetime. If they fight imperia-
lism and go to jail for it now, the
more secure they will be later. “The
object of the revolution is not to win
Hong Kong,” one of them said last
week, “but to force the British to
remember what they have forgotten:
that this is Chinese soil.”
The Peking Government cannot risk
its prestige by appearing to betray the
anti - imperialist struggle. It has
showered adulation on the revolutionary
“heroes” of Hong Kong, protested
against “fascist suppression” of patriotic
demonstrations in the Colony on
October 1, and now—according to latest
reports —has struck all British buyers
off the invitation list for the forthcom-
ing trade fair in Canton.
The upheaval in China and the cam-
paign of violence in Hong Kong cost
Peking at least SA.B2 million of exports
through the Colony between May and
September. China now shows signs of
wishing to limit the damage in future.
However, Hong > Kong communist
leaders are hostile to the moderates in
Peking and look to Canton for sup-
port. Many of them believe that Hong
Kong’s future may lie within a semi-
autonomous Kwangtung, the big adja-
cent province of 50 million people, with
Canton as its capital, in relation to
which the British Crown Colony is like
the pearl in an oyster beautiful,
precious, but ideologically irritating.
But the pearl can be used as a bar-
gaining asset: Chinese Left-wing
sources hint that Canton officials are in
a position to prise out of the moderates
in Peking more local autonomy for their
own provincial bureaucracy by threaten-
ing to incite further mayhem in Hong
Kong.
Hong Kong may enjoy an occasional
breathing space, but is probably in for
a long, hard haul.


■PANATELLA 12c
■CORONA 20c
■COMMODORE PANATELLA 10c
■CORVETTE 8c
■LANCERS 6c
STATESMAN
MILDEST CIGAR ON THE
INTERNATIONAL SCENE
<2
D
%
V*
CD
Manila cigars, Havana, Jamaican,
American, Dutch, Continental cigars
. . they all have their good points.
Combine all those good points and
what have you got? Statesman —a
superior cigar—mildest on the
international scene.
The Middle East
The transformation
THE AGE OF miracles has perhaps
not ceased, at any rate in the Arab
world. In the space of six weeks the
whole aspect of Arab international
politics has undergone a most remark-
able change. Arab governments have
moved from total disunity in June to
peaceful co-existence. Radical altera-
tion in relations with the West is
virtually accomplished especially
with Britain. And the man, above all,
who has wrought this transformation
is Gamal Abdel Nasser, of Egypt.
Before, during, and after the six-
day Arab-Israeli war in June, the Arabs
accused Britain (and they believed it)
of collusion, direct or indirect, with
Israel. British troops and sinister poli-
tical agents were holding up the march
of the Arabs in South Arabia, in the
Persian Gulf, and (in cahoots with the
Saudi Arabians) the Yemen. If America
was the arch-imperialist State, Britain
was the pathetic, hateful tail of the
American eagle.
Today, diplomatic relations, broken
off two years ago over Rhodesia, are
on the point of being re-established.
It is not only that the British want
renewed relations simply to make
things safer for their economic inter-
ests in the Arab world: the Egyptians
are doing their best to heal the breach,
too. A senior British diplomat, Sir
Harold Beeley, is visiting Cairo and
will talk with Nasser. There is talk
in Cairo of a coming visit by Britain’s
Foreign Secretary, George Brown. At
the same time, there is the possibility
of an end to the five-year-old Yemen
war. Egyptian troops are pulling out.
In South Arabia, too, the situation
is transformed. The two Nationalist
groups who will take the country into
independence may agree to share power
and not to shoot it out any more, in
the streets. The British have stopped
supporting the sheiks and have realis-
tically accepted the Nationalists. British
withdrawal is imminent. The Egyptians
are content to bury the hatchet with
Britain, and Nasser is urging the
Nationalists to do the same.
All this was hardly conceivable only
a short time ago. What has changed
things so radically? Essentially the
change took place when the Arab
leaders met at Khartoum for their
summit get-together at the end of
August.
Hussein could never have achieved
the Khartoum meeting alone. It was
bitterly opposed by the Arab extre-
mists, Syria and Algeria, and by the
Palestine organisation of the firebrand
Ahmed Shukairy. King Faisal of Saudi
Arabia was reluctant to sit down with
Arab socialist leaders: the Algerians


no wonder
TREGREHAN
CLARET
rings the bell with
connoisseurs
AnooVc's
u
CLARET
a^GOVE’S
Rr.VMAfcK Mill
FT
jljlij
m
%
..IT'S WON ENOU6H"BONGS'
Gold Medal 1966 Ljubiana, Yugoslavia
Silver Medal 1965 Tbilisi, Russia
Gold Medal 1964 Montpellier, France
See how your taste
compares with the world’s
experts. Buy a bottle.
ANGOVE S TREGREHAN CLARET
Distributed throughout Australia by Dalgety
Trading Co. Pty. Ltd. In Sydney also John
MacKenzie & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“For those who care, there
is a vintage label on the
back of every bottle"
The connoisseurs choice
ANGOVE’S FINO DRY SHERRY
and Syrians said positively they would
not sit down with him. They did not
want conciliation with the “reactionary”
Arab leaders. They preferred “revolu-
tionary war” not only against Israel
but against the Arab monarchies as
well.
It was Nasser, with his immense
prestige only partially diminished by
the Sinai defeat, who managed to bring
the conflicting leaders together. 'He
could not get the hot-headed Syrians
to participate: but the “revolutionary”
Algerians followed his lead. So did
the Iraqis, who stood halfway between
Nasser’s moderation and Syrian
extremism.
The summit idea was widely
opposed. For weeks before the
Khartoum meeting assembled, the Arab
Press and observers of various
nationalities and tendencies had dis-
missed a summit as “unrealistic.” They
said that if it did take place there
could be no real agreement. They
warned that it might, on the contrary,
break up in humiliating confu-
sion. They said the Arabs were
incapable of rallying. Above all,
they said that Nasser and his
arch-enemy, King Faisal, could
never agree to end the Yemen
war. The general view was that
Nasser could never survive the
shame of an Egyptian with-
drawal from Yemen, and that
Egyptian abandonment of Mar-
shal Sallal, the leader of the
Yemen Republic, would be
taken in Egypt as a fearful
political humiliation.
All this proved false. At
Khartoum, Faisal and Nasser
agreed almost at once to end
their aid to Yemen. Today the
Egyptian withdrawal is match-
ing that of the British with-
drawal from South Arabia. Marshal
Sallal has been abandoned, and there is
no sign of the slightest regret in Cairo.
The end of inter-Arab propaganda,
invective, and the fact that again
largely due to Nasser’s lead the talk
of oil boycotts is today heard no more
is further evidence of the traumatic
effect on responsible Arabs of the June
defeat. Discussing the possible resump-
tion of diplomatic relations with
Britain, a senior Egyptian Foreign
Office official told me, “There are
now no major obstacles between us.”
In Cairo an organisation calling it-
self the National Liberation Front
(Bahrein) has issued a call to resist
the “British imperialists” in the Gulf.
In the past, this would have drawn
immediate and strident support from
Egyptian Government spokesmen. This
time they remained silent.
Nasser’s decision to take this drama-
tic new line of moderation is no doubt
largely based on harsh post-war facts
of life. Egypt’s army was shattered in
Sinai. It has been demoralised still
further by the recent purges and
arrests and by Field-Marshal Abdel
Hakim Amer’s suicide. Egypt’s economy
is in disarray. Industrial expansion
and construction work of various kinds
has been cut back. The economy may
take years to recover because some of
the economic effects of the June war
will be seen only in the years to come,
according to economists in Cairo.
Nevertheless, the success or failure
of Nasser’s moderation concerns not
only Egypt: it effects the future of the
entire Arab world, Israel, too, and
hence the world at large.
A bitter Arab doctrinal struggle is
on. On the one hand there are those
Arabs —and they are very numerous in
all the Arab countries —who cannot
reconcile themselves to the patient, un-
dramatic pursuit of a political solution
to the Arab-Israeli problem: nor to the
truce that now exists between the pro-
gressive and reactionary Arab govern-
ments. These people, generally intel-
lectuals and soldiers, want war at any
price.
On the other hand, there are those
like King Hussein, President Aref, of
Camel-mounted Arabian troops watch the
start of Britain's exit from Aden
Iraq, the Sudanese, Moroccans, and
Tunisians, who are willing to take the
hard road of the reconstruction on the
basis of an unflinching reappraisal of
past faults. None of these leaders could
get far against the vociferous and hot-
headed extremists without the support
and example of Nasser. It is probable,
therefore, that if Nasser had been
toppled from power by the Israeli war,
the present commonsense and modera-
tion could not have prevailed.
Moderation may yet founder. The
decision taken at Khartoum to try for a
political settlement with Israel through
the United Nations has been strongly
criticised in the Arab world. Nasser
can justify moderation only if it suc-
ceeds. If Israeli intransigence or any
other factor brings stalemate in New
York, and if the Arab demands for
Israeli withdrawals from the occupied
zones (with suitable quid pro quos) are
not met, gleeful Arab extremists will be
able to say, “We told you so.”
Nasser’s prestige is very great, but
how broad are even his shoulders?


ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
BUILDING
bs!
m.
w.
&TEE
FUND
®“«AN7HD
FOR
INVEST
1 W.OOO
PER
■H
* 1
THE SYMBOL
OF SAFETY
This symbol means that at the St.
George & Cronulla Building Society
the withdrawal of your money is
guaranteed up to $lO,OOO per
account. Your savings earn a hand-
some 6% p.a. net (current rate).
Your investment is for NO FIXED
TERM and is readily available for
withdrawal, together with accrued
dividend. There are no deductions.
Your dividend is paid twice yearly.
Your security is backed by $3l
million assets.
Write for brochure.
The progressive building society
ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward—General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36
Ormonde Pde., Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone
57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone
28 2801.
MIRANDA OFFICE: 551 The Kingsway.
Phone 524 6466.
PARRAMATTA OFFICE: 167 Macquarie St.
Phone 635 4574.
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office.
Please send free, comprehensive
literature to:
NAME
ADDRESS...
8Y458
The Venus landing
The odd planet
Russia’s Venus IV
spacecraft, which
has unlocked
some Venusian
secrets but also
resulted in new
puzzlement about
the nature of the
“twin” earth
“WHERE HAS ALL the nitrogen
gone?” This is the main question
astronomers are asking since the Rus-
sians landed instruments on the surface
of Venus last week and found that there
is no nitrogen in the planet’s atmos-
phere. Dr. Carl Sagan, of the Harvard
Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory,
hias said: “It beats me. It is very sur-
prising. It means we do not understand
the source of nitrogen in our own
atmosphere.”
The absence of nitrogen will be a
major obstacle in imagining any form
of life which could exist on Venus. Dr.
Sagan and his colleague, Dr. Morowitz,
of Yale University, recently “designed”
a theoretical organism which might be
able to live a floating existence in the
clouds of Venus, where it would be
cooler. They suggested it could be
buoyed up by “a balloon,” a thin mem-
brane filled with hydrogen, and fed on
mineral dusts blown up from the plane-
tary surface, captured on the organism’s
sticky lower surface. However, Dr.
Sagan’s organism would need nitrogen
as does every form of life we know-
Nitrogen is essential for protein and
for nucleic acids which embody the
“genetic code.”
In trying to think of some form of
life which might be viable on the Venus
now revealed by the Russians, Dr. Pat
Clarke, of University College, London,
said that some extraordinary bacteria
have just been found living in hot
springs in an American desert in tem-
peratures of 92deg. Centigrade
almost hot enough to boil an egg. They
have evolved a special method involv-
ing sulphur atoms to prevent their pro-
teins being broken down. This shows
what can be done but is still a far
cry from the temperatures of 280 deg.
Centigrade reported by the Russians,
when all water essential to all terres-
trial life would be steam.
Thus, on the Venusian surface, “life”
might have to embody substances which
are liquid at 280 degrees, build a
strange genetic code, possibly with
compounds of phosphorus or selenium,
and feed oh carbon dioxide and dust.
It does not sound promising but ter-
restrial life achieves so many surpris-
ing things in ways still poorly under-
stood that the biochemists are not will-
ing to rule out Venusian life altogether.
Scientists would very much like to
know if Venus IV has shown composi-
tion of the yellowish outer clouds of
Venus, which hide the surface com-
pletely and apparently contain ice crys-
tals. Two American scientists at Lock-
heed’s Palo Alto Laboratory in Cali-
fornia, Gerald Davidson and Albert
Anderson, have recently suggested that
there could be intense volcanic activity
on Venus, releasing quantities of dust
and gas.
But the absence of nitrogen is likely
to cause most discussion (although a
single measurement is a slender basis
for debate). Venus used to be called the
“twin” of earth, as it is much the same
size and seemed to include water in its
atmosphere. But it is becoming clear
that it is, in fact, a very odd planet.
Dr. Sagan said yesterday: “On earth,
nitrogen is an unreactive gas and so
one has always expected that it was
left over from earlier stages of out-
gassing. Since nitrogen is cosmically
abundant, we expected the atmosphere
of other planets like the earth, especi-
ally Mars and Venus, to be similar.”
Thus either some novel processes must
be conceived for Venus or ideas about
the evolution of the earth must be
revised. Dr. Sagan also said that the
Russian report of an absence of argon
gas in the Venusian atmosphere was a
surprise.
This adds a further mystery to one
recently established by radar studies
on the planet: uniquely in the solar
system, Venus revolves “backwards”—
in the opposite direction from its motion
round the sun —once every 250 days.
Professor R. A. Lyttleton, of Cambridge,
says that this presents “a great
theoretical problem.” Ideas about the
formation of planets suggest that they
should all be spinning the same way.
Possibly Venus has become turned
upside down, so that its “South Pole”
is near where its “North Pole” ought
to be. But how this could happen is
obscure.
The Russians’ extraordinary feat
poses as many new problems as it has
provided answers. But this is character-
istic of the best scientific experiments.


m
, ,
? 3«»
I >'
UmPWPP I ? ,
"m
Tr'^'ww®
■
v ■
< ®****iii>
::
* *2
i#
Jl
»#
5 5:S»*
-?*»#* fc**l»*
.;»■
... . ..**»% " •
*
>.
sgms
**o
n t
i
'..v . \ ■:•;
'
Ills
«•■*•» w'‘ -
t?s'j F'- :' ,
m •&' - \-*'J
'•
I
■* * . ' . ' *
>.'' J #>— : ■
■ ;:>:
M
MB
*^o*o^*


m
■'•V
v '
Thera’s nothing we’d
rather do than help
you start to finish.
Ask Arnold-DeVilbiss
Join the fraternity which enjoys the most extensive
technical facilities (when it comes to spray finishing
equipment) in Australia, the U.K. and U.S.A. We’re big
enough, resourceful enough and diversified enough to
offer you complete Technical Service when and where
you need it. We’ve got the know-how, the widest range of
equipment and thorough After Sales service to help you.
Choose Arnold-DeVilbiss and enjoy the club’s facilities!
Arnold-DeVilbiss know-how and Technical
Service guarantee you a better finish.
If you want to know what’s what
and who’s who free, get on the
Arnold-DeVilbiss mailing list and
you'll know all. Mall coupon now
to Arnold-DeVllblss, Box 2244 G.P.0.,
Sydney, 2001.
Name
Company
Address
PostCode
Industry Classification
THE COMMONWEALTH INDUSTRIAL GASES LIMITED
138 Bourke Road, Alexandria, N.S.W. 2015
Sydney / Newcastle / Port Kembla / Melbourne / Brisbane / Townsville
Adelaide / Perth / Whyaila / Hobart / Launceston.
Arnold-DeVilbiss equipment is sold and
serviced by CIG and its distributors in
Australia and Overseas.
00
727/678


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
A merchant banking group
with a difference
IT WAS THE MOST publicised spend-
ing of only £stg.9o,ooo in the Roths-
childs’ fascinating history. But the sig-
nificance of last week’s formation of
International Pacific Corporation by
the London Rothschilds (through N. M.
Rothschild and Sons) with the Oppen-
heimers (through Charter Consolidated
Ltd.) and a group of Australian inter-
ests headed by the Sydney broking
house of Hordern, Utz and Bode is
far greater than the corporation’s pre-
sent capital of $750,000 would suggest.
For IPC is not the first or even
the biggest of the merchant banking
groups in Australia with very signifi-
cant overseas associations there is
Australian United Corporation, Devel-
opment Finance Corporation, and
Darlings, for example (all of whom, by
the way, have been something of a dis-
appointment). But IPC is some-
thing extra; it combines the merchant
banking and money-raising skills of the
Rothschilds with the mining and in-
dustrial abilities of the Oppenheimer
groups; it weds a professional provider
of money with a professional developer
of natural resources. And then it plans
to do all the “normal” merchant bank-
ing things as well. And the significance
of this new corporation is not simply
in the first public appearance, as 30
percent equity owners in IPC, of the
Rothschilds in Australia; their associates
in this venture, the Oppenheimers,
could well provide far more immediate
impetus to the group’s activities here
in view of their special position in
the mining industry.
The Rothschilds have had consider-
able Australian interests for some time,
not only on their own account but also
through investment trusts and clients
Evelyn de Rothschild
whose affairs they manage (Mr. Eve-
lyn de Rothschild has made annual
visits to Australia to keep his eye on
them for some years). And so have the
Oppenheimers, with the Melbourne
office of their Anglo-American Corpor-
ation handling a well-established ex-
ploration program (heavily oriented to-
ward Western Australia and including
a nickel prospect in the Kalgoorlie
area) that is currently costing about
$1 million a year and from which no
tangible rewards have yet been re-
ported.
Quite apart from their participation
in the Canadian Power Corporation’s
bid for Mt. Morgan, the Oppenheimer
groups have now said (in an impor-
tant policy statement last week) that
they “intend to increase their Australian
investments when suitable opportunities
occur and will do so in any fields which
appear attractive.” This policy could
well provide the new IPC group with
plenty of work, especially in view of
the Oppenheimer group’s assurance
that they favor “offering equity to local
investors up to 70 percent, once a pro-
ject is viable.” And to underline their
liking for the 30 percent ownership
principle, 30 percent is their share of
IPC’s equity.
So when the Oppenheimers, through
Anglo-American, come up with some-
thing worth while in Australia, particu-
larly in the natural resources sector, it
looks as if IPC will handle the affair,
and even after the IPC partners have
had a crack at the equity, there should
still be more than half of it left for
Australian investors a refreshing
change from the policies of so many
other foreign mining groups who buy
their titles “. . . of Australia” by spread-
ing around as little as 15 percent of the
equity in Australian hands.
But so far, no one in IPC is talking
about what the corporation plans to do
next. Rothschild and IPC director Mr.
Evelyn de Rothschild said last week
they were taking no position in the
battle between Power and Peko for Mt.
Morgan, despite the interests of the
Oppenheimer group.
Where will the Rothchilds raise
foreign capital for IPC? The way
things are at present in London and
New York, it looks as if the European
dollar market is the only overseas one
really open. But Rothschilds have man-
aged to do quite well there for their
clients; in the past year the house has
been lead managers in raising more than
$U.5.150 million on the European
market. And last week announced a
SU.S.SO million issue in Europe for
the Royal Dutch Shell group.
IPC is going into the provision of
short-term and seasonal loans and
credits and, in an interesting move, it
plans to arrange the acceptance of bills
of exchange, which looks like a plan to
build up a more effective commercial
bill market than the puny one that
exists here at present. Its directors have
a great deal of knowledge of this busi-
ness, not simply from the London end
but of the local scene, for four of
them have been very close to (or direc-
tors of companies operating in) the
local official short-term money market.
Other areas in which the new corpora-
tion has special skills include the large-
scale pipelines business (Rothschilds
raised the finance for the huge one-
million-barrels-a-day Transalpine pipe-
line now being built; local demand for
similar services is only just beginning).
The directorate of IPC will be mainly
Australian; six of the 10-man board are
local men, as is the managing-director,
36-year-old Mr. Simon Heath, who gave
up his partnership in Hordern, Utz and
Bode (and a seat on the Sydney Stock
Exchange Committee) to take the job.
Retail prices
Creeping inflation
THE SEPTEMBER QUARTER rise
in retail prices of 1.4 percent was the
biggest for seven years. Although, as
they say, two-thirds of the jump is
attributable to higher food costs, it
does emphasise that inflation creeps on.
Almost always commentators tend
to discount the element of prices due
to food, as if it is not part of the
overall economic process. Sometimes it
is written off as “seasonal.” Like all
• such statements it contains its element
of truth, but any examination of the.
statistical record shows that only a
small proportion of such “seasonal rises”
is offset by corresponding seasonal
falls. Which leads to the conclusion
that most of the rises are not seasonal
at all! Just like other prices, they were
the product of longer-term supply and
demand factors operating in the
economy.
It is perhaps worth listing these, for
the problem 'seems so often to get lost
in ritualised generalities. The factors


constantly at work are wage rises
in excess of gains in productivity
brought on by the Arbitration Commis-
sion’s stubborn refusal to appreciate its
national economic responsibilities, a
tariff policy which creates a cosy corner
for high-cost industries, and a general
slowness in taking advantage of low-
cost shipping.
While on the topic of prices it is
worth drawing attention to the in-
adequacies in information available.
Retail and rural prices are pretty well
charted by indices, yet the Common-
wealth Statistician produces nothing of
any value on wholesale or industrial
prices or costs. There is a rather far-
cical index described as a wholesale
price index, but its weighting is based
on 1930’s distribution of production.
It must be regarded as more mislead-
ing than useful.
Ploughbacks
Fixed investment?
IF, AS THE NATIONAL BANK is
presently advocating, companies were
relieved of some of their tax burden,
would they in a situation of rising
profits necessarily increase their
ploughbacks and apply them to the ex-
pansion of fixed investment? It is
a reasonable proposition to expect some
increase in profit retentions, though last
year, when company profits rose seven
percent, the inclination was generally to
pass a fair share of the increase on to
shareholders in higher dividends. Given
an increase in ploughbacks it is a moot
point whether these will, as the bank
seems to imply, be directed to swell
fixed investment, in which there are
still only faint signs of a revival.
The essential requirement for this
bud of a revival to blossom is an
all-round strengthening of investment
expectations. Of course, a lightening of
company taxation would make a useful
contribution to this. But a reduction in
company tax on its own would not
necessarily be decisive, as a run-down
of the complex of inter-related influ-
ences, such as comparative interest
rates and the level of unused industrial
capacity, the prospective level of de-
mand and so forth, makes clear.
Just as private fixed investment has
been retarded by the reduced state of
investment expectations for the past
eighteen months or so, the latter has
also been behind the poor appetite of
companies for raising new money for
expansion in the capital market. With
investment expectations in a low state,
it may appear not to have mattered
that last year, as the National points
out, additions to ploughbacks were
sacrificed somewhat to dividend in-
creases. Ploughbacks in secondary in-
dustry appear to have sufficed, without
much recourse to' the capital market,
for the amount of fixed investment the
companies’ investment expectations
beckoned them to do. When these
expectations get more optimistic, as they
may well do quite soon, a lot of com-
panies liberal with their payouts last
year may well rue that they failed to
tuck away more of their profits.
Receipt duty
Drowning maze
WHILE SIR HENRY BOLTE’S
burghers were packing their bags last
week to plead with Mr. McMahon
for $lO million or so for drought re-
lief, a matter which is also calling for
and getting a big response from the
trading banks and pastoral companies,
most of his other Treasury officials were
locked in the labyrinth of the new re-
ceipt duty they designed to cut down
future cap-in-hand excursions to Can-
berra. There was no sign that they
were yet out of the maze when, down
at Capel Court, Mr. J. Campbell John-
ston, the acting chairman of Brenton
Investments and the possible successor
to Staniforth Ricketson, was telling
shareholders that the possible effects of
the tax demanded very strict and far-
sighted consideration by Sir Henry
(with the spring racing carnival in full
swing, too!).
Mr. Johnston said it was difficult
to follow all the implications of the
new tax, but it was obvious that the
cumulative nature of the impost, which
attaches itself anew every time raw
materials, semi-processed goods, and
finished goods change hands, would be
very much-greater than the small 0.1
percent rate might suggest. If Victoria
went it alone with the tax, business
would be driven interstate. The extent
that this would happen was beyond
present calculation. Anyway, for Bren-
ton Investments it was going to be a
drain on the company’s income and
shareholders would have to pay it on
their dividends. It is quite conceiv-
able that, like Sir Henry’s earlier pro-
posal for a State income tax, this one
will also have to be abandoned; it is
an even money bet in Melbourne that
by the time of the next Federal-State
finance get-together, scheduled for
February in Canberra, Sir Henry’s
officials will have called it a day.
Nickel
Courting Hampton
PROBABLY THE HAPPIEST people
in Perth last week, following the Great
Boulder boom, were the stockbroking
firm which had taken a carefully cal-
culated punt for clients, not on Great
What about drought, Mr. McMahon?
Boulder, but on Hampton Properties.
This London-based group owns not
only the freehold of land above the
Great Boulder find, but minerals leases
as well, by virtue its pre-Federation
title. Great Boulder were given rights
to nickel in return for one-quarter
of anything Great Boulder made from
Location 45 on Hampton Plains.
Because of Hampton Properties’
small shareholding, 535,000 shares, the
value of this interest rises even more
dramatically than the value of Great
Boulder shares. In theory, when Great
Boulder were ten dollars, Hampton
Properties were worth 56 dollars.
The broker has taken up about eight
percent of the Hampton Properties’
shareholding, getting clients in between
$1.50 and just over $5.00. With Hamp-
ton Properties’ shares at $15, as they
were at the end of last week, the firm
had rcorded about $400,000 profit for
clients in its operation.
Guidelines
Reduced too soon
REDUCTION OF THE Federal
Government’s iron-ore guidelines
seemed the right thing to do at the
time. But there must be grave doubts
about its wisdom following the in-
creasingly tough negotiations of subse-
quent weeks. As mentioned in The
Bulletin of September 30, Hamersley
Iron’s new fines price is the lowest in
Australia; last week this was blamed for
the breakdown in negotiations between
the Japanese and Goldsworthy Mining
Pty. Ltd. Goldsworthy were asking 11.9
cents per unit for the 60-62 percent Fo
fines comprising part of an offer of
500,000 tons each of fines and lump ore
over the next 1# years.
The Tokyo trade Press claimed that
the buyers were seeking a price-level
more in line with Hamersley’s—lo.62
cents for fines of average Fe content
61-62 percent.


THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy : Mainly stimulated by rising food
prices, the six capitals’ cost of living index went up by 1.4
percent in the quarter ended September, its biggest single
step forward since 1.8 percent for the June, 1960, quarter;
the previous September quarter had produced a 0.4 percent
increase.
Seasonally adjusted, registered unemployed were 2724
fewer, at 68,000, in September; vacancies also lessened, by
909 to 35,400.
Australia’s international reserves lost sB.sm. in September,
reaching $1142.8m. or their lowest level since October, 1962.
For the markets: When Australian share markets
managed to divorce their attention from nickel, which wasn’t
any too easy, they kept base metals and oils strong and
industrials just about firm; overall volumes were heavy.
Most equity sections moved ahead in London despite
interest-rate and industrial tremors . . . Thoughts of tight
money and the Ford strike helped Wall Street downwards.
For companies: The spirit of merchant banking was
made manifest when N. M. Rothschild and Sons, Charter
Consolidated (Oppenheimer-Rothschild), and Sydney broker
Hordern, Utz, and Bode came together to form an Australian
house, International Pacific Corporation Ltd.; some emphasis
was placed on “arranging the provision of capital in connec-
tion with the development of natural resources.”
The miners provided enough activity to make such an
attitude feasible . . . Our latest star billing, Great Boulder
Gold Mines, put out two quick progress reports, the second
of which gave added richness to the Mount Martin nickel
area and also led to queries from Exchange officials . . .
Norseman Gold and Ravensthorpe Copper are jointly to
explore for nickel near Widgiemooltha (W.A.) . . . Iron ore-
is no laggard, either, for Hamersley will expand its capacity
by 50 percent only six months after a 100 percent expan-
sion; the September quarter saw profits exceeding the two
previous quarters combined, even after a future tax provision
. . . The Japanese mills don’t like the price of Goldsworthy’s
new offer for lump and fines . . . Aided by silver, North
Broken Hill earned $5,249,000 (previously $5,140,000) for
the September quarter; 1966-67’s accounts revealed a fine
year for its outside investments.
BHP and Esso, as equal partners, are to develop the King-
fish and Halibut offshore oil fields (BHP alone held its steel
output fairly steady and is conferring about a steel mill in
Taiwan) . . . Ampol Exploration proposes a one-for-four
par issue.
Traditional finance houses approached glamor when the
National Bank of Australasia sent its profits up by nearly
40 percent to $4,616,632 (earning rate 18.4 percent), fol-
lowed by the Bank of New South Wales, whose earnings
advanced 21 percent to $10,692,000 (earning rate 17.1 per-
cent).
With spring, retailers can’t be far behind, as Myer Em-
porium expects a “moderate improvement” in the current
year . . . G. J. Coles disclosed sales 11.1 percent higher, at
$279.3m., for 1966-67 . . . David Jones added 8 percent in
its 1966-67 sales and hopes they will be “greatly enhanced”
to help combat rising costs.
Civil engineer McDonald Industries came back with a 4
percent dividend after earnings improved from $261,189 to
$301,627 (1964 and 1965 had produced severe losses); iron
ore operations at Frances Creek aren’t yet profitable ... A
one percent addition brought island trader W. R. Carpenter’s
dividend to 16 percent, although profits slipped from
$4,862,340 to $4,480,261 (earning rate 30 percent).
MEN AND MATTERS
HOW DID SIR JAMES KIRBY, the
7/6-a-week apprentice motor mechanic
turned industrial magnate, manage to
make enough money to give away $2
million of it last week?
The 68-year-old boss of the James
N. Kirby group of companies set out
on his own in the motor recondition-
ing business at 25, after 10 years of
learning his trade the hard way. Fifteen
years later, when the war broke out,
he had built up a very strong business
in the engine reconditioning field. Then
he became busy producing crankshafts
for the Gypsy Moth and landing gear
for Wirraways.
But after the war he wanted to
make compressors, because of his
knowledge of reconditioning, and this
led him to refrigerator production. In
1947 the first fridge was produced, using
sealed-unit compressors. As it was im-
possible to buy electric motors, he had
to make them himself, and this is how
the group interests built up. The
appliance side of the Kirby business,
James N. Kirby Manufacturing Pty.
Ltd., was taken over in 1964 by Gen-
eral Electric Co. of the U.S. (the
Kirby group retaining 20 percent
ownership).
The first inspiration to establish a
benevolent foundation came from Lord
Nuffield, with whom Sir James had
many personal dealings as an original
board member of Nuffields in Australia.
(Fie is still director of British Motor
Corporation (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.) Lord
Nuffield, who loved Australia, used to
come here each year by sea. His
Foundation favored medicine, but the
James N. Kirby Foundation will lean to
technical education.
Directors of the Foundation include
Sir James’ two sons, Raymond, a
mechanical and electrical engineer, and
Kevin, a metallurgist, both of whom
are in the business. They say 'their
father loves getting projects off the
ground.
“BIB” STILLWELL, four times Aus-
tralian racing-car champion (1962-65),
has always been a man in a hurry.
Since he gave up the racing game two
years ago to concentrate on his business
interests the pace has even increased.
His twin interests, car distribution and
light aircraft, have gone from strength
to strength. From being one of the
biggest Holden dealers in the country,
just over a year ago he switched to
a Ford franchise and in his first year
his Kew-based firm, B. S. Stillwell Co.
Pty. Ltd., of which he is managing
director, sold 2477 Fords, second to
Melfords in Melbourne. Fords con-
sider his selling set-up the best they’ve
seen anywhere and have taken it as a
model to reorganise other distributing
Sir James Kirby
“Bib” Stillwell
agencies. It all started from servicing
racing cars during his eighteen or so
years on the tracks.
His interest in light aircraft began
much later, in 1961, as a result of a
flip in one with Jack Brabham to a
car-race meeting, after which he quali-
fied as a pilot and bought a Beechcraft
Debonair for his personal use. In 1962
he took over a small aircraft firm at
Moorabbin and formed his present
company, Civil Flying Services, which
now has 40 aircraft (valued at $1.2
million), or more than any other Aus-
tralian concern outside TAA and An-
sett. Its operations, extending to Wes-
tern Australia, comprise charter ser-
vices (around the Hamersleys for in-
stance), cloud seeding, and bushfire pre-
vention work,


to label you as a man who makes a success off everything he does.
Because Stetson radiates authority, easy confidence, good taste.
Stetson worn around the world by men who invest in good
appearance! At all leading men’s wear stores.
How to make pensions portable
PORTABILITY THE RIGHT to
take your superannuation entitlement
with you when you move from job to
job is getting increasing support in
Australia. But there are many big
problems to be solved before it is likely
to come here; problems that are now-
being examined closely at Common-
wealth and State levels. The Federal
Government’s appointment of Sir Les-
lie Melville earlier this year to suggest
how portability could be introduced
Into Federal and State Government,
CSIRO, and university pensioti funds
has been followed by the Victorian
Government’s establishment of a com-
mittee of private members to report,
among other things, on the problems of
Introducing portability into both pri-
vate and public sector funds.
“Vesting” is really what portability
is all about. In Australia most pension
funds are contributory, with the em-
ployee as well as the employer contribu-
ting toward it. If a member leaves a
fund without vesting provisions before
he retires, however, he withdraws only
his own contributions (with interest
added in most instances). For his years
of service with this particular employer
the departing member has lost or been
divested of the contributions made to
the fund by the employer for his bene-
fit. When he retires, therefore, this em-
ployee is so much the worse off.
The idea of vesting is to give an
employee who leaves a fund before
retirement the right to receive at retire-
ment, in the form of a deferred pen-
sion (or lump sum), the total value
with interest of his own contributions
and his share of the employer’s con-
tributions as at the date of his depar-
ture.
Portability, as such, is a refinement
of the vesting principle. A deferred
pension may not accumulate in value
in the interval between the departure
of the employee from the fund and his
retirement. To get over this drawback
and to avoid some obvious difficulties
in administering deferred pensions in
the long term, the proposition has been
put that the employee should be able
to carry the value of his deferred pen-
sion with him from fund to fund, its
value thereby increasing more or less
as it would have in the original fund,
or, if not from fund to fund (as not
every employer has a pension fund),
then to a clearing house specially con-
stituted to handle deferred pensions.
Both the U.S. and U.K. reports favor
the eventual establishment of some soil
of clearing house for deferred pensions,
although the U.K. report regards the
problems associated with portability in
any form as difficult of solution and
seems to conclude that vesting of
deferred pensions should be the aim for
the present.
The difficulties in the concept of
portability become apparent when the
variety in design and purpose and
coverage of pension funds is considered.
The chief protagonists of portability
in Australia at the moment appear to
be some influential Federal Public Ser-
vants with support in the Federal
Cabinet, who would like to make it
possible for the more highly skilled
technocrats to move in and out of the
public service, the universities, and pri-
vate employment without loss of pension
benefits or the cost of making up the
loss on each change of employment.
Apart from . the group of Victorian
Parliamentarians, who for personal or
altruistic reasons have brought about
the formation of the Victorian com-
mittee, the only other noticeable pro-
tagonists are some of the more sophis-
ticated leaders of semi-professional
unions or associations who want pension
funds organised on an industry basis.
Skilled employees usually stay within
the same industry. The idea behind this
proposal, therefore, is to eliminate the
need for portability by covering all
skilled employees in the one industry
with tH one pension fund, organised
by . all employers in that industry.
This idea might work well in some
industries, but its weakness is that
the fund proposed for most industries
would be no better than the least gener-
ous of the employers involved would
allow. Multi-employer funds in the
United States are not noted for ad-
vanced pension planning.
The protagonists usually put forward
two major arguments. One, that it is
only fair, and therefore a matter of
public policy, to introduce portability
or vesting into pension funds. Two, that
portability or vesting will increase labor
mobility which is necessary in a modern
economy. The U.S. and U.K. reports to
some extent discredited the second
argument. It has force, they say, in
regard to a small percentage of the
work force, namely the more highly
skilled employees with long service and
continuing prospects of advancement. As
rapid technological change becomes
more common throughout industry the
argument might apply more generally,
The chief opponents of portability are
to be found among some (certainly not
all) of the major employers. They often
advance the argument that the purpose
of their pension funds is to act as an
incentive to their employees to stay in
their service. This statement, even if


•the best climate
in the world*
II . ,
w
Cool air? Warm air? Filtered air?
A room or a skyscraper? Westinghouse
provides the best climate in the world.
Any size. Any situation. Anywhere in Australia.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
EMAIL
AIR CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION DIVISION
A TOTALLY AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH.
2854/53/67
Invest in
INDUSIRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION IID.
Paid up capital
$25,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
1
10 YEARS
2
5i% 12 MONTHS
Other rates and terms available see Pros-
pectus for full details. Prospectus and application
form available from:
• BROKERS lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of
the forms of application attached to a
printed copy of Prospectus^
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
1251
true, is thoughtless, unnecessary, and
selfish and does these employers a dis-
service. They have a very good argu-
ment in that most of them have elabor-
ate and expensive staff training schemes
which are necessary to their successful
competitive functioning, and they can-
not in all reason be expected to coun-
tenance without concern anything which
will encourage the loss of their trained
staff.
The point is often made that this
policy imprisons the disgruntled senior
executive. This might be so, but the
employer has to look at the whole
picture. The disgruntled executive, of
course, may not always be able to get
another job. If he has any market value
at all he should be able to negotiate
a back pension from his new employer.
Many employers in Australia are, of
course, less opposed to portability than
others. Two years ago the Association
of Superannuation and Provident Funds
of Australia surveyed its members on
this question and learnt that of 172
major funds covered by this survey,
41 granted vested rights in the form
of deferred benefits to employees who
left the service of the employer of
their own free will. Again, 10 of the
172 funds allowed members resigning
to transfer their full entitlement to their
next employer’s fund and 45 allowed
such members to do so subject to cir-
cumstances. Of the 172, 12 funds
would accept a transfer of a member’s
full entitlement from his previous em-
ployer’s fund and 44 would do so sub-
ject to circumstances.
The other important, if unwitting,
opponent of portability or vesting is
the employee. Understandably, he
much prefers the cash. Unilever, which
operates more than 50 pension funds
and employs more than 300,000 workers
throughout the world, has an option
in all its funds allowing an employee
withdrawing before retirement to choose
a deferred pension. In Unilever in
the U.K. in the three years to 1964, for
office male staff with more than four
but less than 10 years’ service, 15 per-
cent of options offered were accepted;
for the same staff with more than 10
years’ service, the figure was 47 percent.
For works male staff in the first cate-
gory, the figure was three percent, and
in the second category, 13 percent.
What, then, is likely to happen in
Australia? In the public sector Govern-
ments may be able to legislate by agree-
ment and arrive at some sort of equit-
able portability arrangements by bring-
ing their funds up to a uniform stan-
dard. In the private sector the mooted
proposals for portability are either a
pipe-dream or the harbinger of a
measure of legislative .control that pri-
vate pension funds will not readily
accept. Here the best to hope for may
be the vesting of deferred pensions on
a liberal basis.


WALTONS
ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
20th OCTOBER, 1967
Address of Chairman and Managing Director ?
MR. J. R. WALTON
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The financial year recently ended was indeed a year
of challenge, as I forecast at the Meeting of Shareholders
last year.
The Marcus Clark Group was acquired as from the
commencement of the trading month of December, 1966.
Waltons was then faced with the task of absorbing and
integrating into its operations four full line department
stores, seven homewares stores, more than eighty thousand
customer accounts and a staff of over one thousand
people; and it will be recalled that the Marcus Clark
Group had incurred substantial trading losses in the
three prior financial years. The great impact of this
task was felt in the second half of the year.
The acquisition of Marcus Clark, the largest ever
undertaken by your Company, had been very well
considered. Your Directors were aware that there would
be heavy costs of integration and that it would take
considerable money and effort to bring its trading opera-
tions to profitability but that savings of income tax would
provide a real compensation which should continue be-
yond the period of transition.
The task of integrating Marcus Clark is well on the
way to completion. Every store acquired now carries
the Waltons name and operates as such. In each of the
six locations in which both Companies had retail facili-
ties, the operations have been amalgamated in the former
Marcus Clark store. In every case, the combined operation
is functioning smoothly and total sales of the six stores
in these locations for the first ten weeks of this financial
year show an increase of 34.1% over the total sales of
the twelve stores operating in the corresponding ten
weeks of last year. In the New South Wales country
towns of Wagga, Orange, Lithgow, Tumut, and Inverell,
where Waltons did not have a store, sales increases for
the year to date over the corresponding period of last
year range from 115% to 205%. Every former Marcus
Clark store is expected to trade profitably in this current
year. Miller Anderson Limited, the Adelaide department
store now 63% owned by Waltons, earned a record net
profit last year and this trend is continuing.
The extensive and costly work on the customers
accounts of Marcus Clark is all but completed. More
than sixty thousand of these have paid in full or are
paying satisfactorily. The latter have been incorporated
in Waltons ledgers. Hopeless accounts have been dis-
carded and efforts are still being made on a remaining
small proportion of accounts.
It is clear that, as a result of our work, m> less than
$750,000 of the Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
in existence at the time of acquisition will be surplus to
requirements. $250,000 of this amount has already been
transferred to Waltons Consolidated Provision for Con-
tingencies. Considerable costs involved in working on
these accounts have been charged against Waltons’
profits.
The acquisition of Marcus Clark together with the
partnership with First National City Bank, which became
operative last year, opens a new era of development and
progress for Waltons.
We now have four new department stores, splendidly
located in Canberra, Australia’s national capital and
fastest growing city, in Newcastle and in Wollongong,
Australia’s two largest provincial cities, in Liverpool, a
rapidly developing satellite city of Sydney. Waltons did
have a homewares store in each of these centres but it is
now able to offer a wider range of merchandise, especially
wearing apparel, in modem department stores and to
take greater advantage of its customer acceptance and
prospects for growth.
The value to Waltons of having department stores in
good locations is confirmed by our experience at Banks-
town, Sydney. The department store there had record
sales and profits in the year recently completed against
vigorous and greatly increased competition. New large
shopping centres which have opened in the past two
years, at Roselands, Burwood and Bankstown Square, are
all in the trading area serviced by Waltons Bankstown
store. In addition, some Waltons customers who previously
shopped at Bankstown now patronise our new department
store at Liverpool.
The partnership with First National City Bank, New
York, one of the great banks of this world, will enable
Waltons to take full advantage of its potential as a
retailer. This partnership, already working so success-
fully, greatly assists Waltons by assuming the task of
raising the funds to finance Waltons instalment credit
sales. FNCB-Waltons Corporation Limited is able to raise
more money at lower interest rates. In addition, it is
extending its activities into the commercial finance
fields and Waltons can expect larger dividends from the
Corporation as this business develops.
Waltons greatest source of profit is retailing and the
opportunity to concentrate on retailing, together with the
expanded retail store facilities, provides the Company
with greater scope to increase profits.
A company needs not only a market and the financial
means of taking advantage of it, but people. We are
greatly encouraged in our planning and expectations by
the response that we are continually receiving from the
people in our business. From the most junior to the
most senior, we have a high proportion who are both
able and truly dedicated. We place great emphasis not
only on training but on fostering, at all levels, participa-
tion in the business and a spirit of dedication.
The Directors of Waltons believe that the challenges
of the past year have been met successfully, and that
foundations have been laid for greater profits in subse-
quent years. Benefits are expected to commence in this
current year and budgets for the' first half of the year
have been set accordingly. For the ten weeks to date,
sales are ahead of budget.


Ik
R
»!S2B
lit
i«&fr%Sm
»mt
■■
Wmm
W4L
Mitt
tdiaaiitiam
UMUtMW
Marley
does a better
cooling: job
Marley don’t mess around when it comes to cooling towers. They’ve
got the biggest range in the world . . the best range in the world.
You can choose any one of 400 standard models (or we’ll build
custom units for unique requirements), knowing that each Marley
Tower gives guaranteed performance day after day, year after year.
Marley Towers are made for people who want efficiency, economy
and real reliability. They’re better in design, more solid in construc-
tion and only proved and tested materials are used. Keep out of
hot water with guaranteed performance Marley Cooling Towers.
MARLEY
TOWERS
£9
Manufactured in Australia by
A TOTALLY AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE
AIR CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION DIVISION: MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
3060/94/67R


THE
CROESUS
TOUCH
The equity cult
gives scope
to the trustees
BY J. C. HORSFALL
FOLLOWING UP WHAT Mr. J. W.
Dunlop, chairman of Perpetual Trus-
tees, said about the growing spread of
investments by trustee companies in
the equity field last week, apparently
there are no behind-the-scenes moves
in other States to bring trustee legis-
lation up to date on the lines adopted
in Western Australia in recent years
and giving the companies wider dis-
cretion in the investment of estate funds
in their charge. In Victoria, for in-
stance, the only legislative move on the
trustee front is to put more sense
into the law pertaining to people dying
intestate. So for the time being, one
shouldn’t run away with the idea that
the trustee companies are about to be-
come a much bigger force in share
markets than they are at present.
Nor are they looking for, or so it was
suggested by one executive to me, un-
bridled discretionary powers, for the
gate to be opened too wide. What they
would seem to want is more flexibility,
as for instance is given to trustee com-
panies in Canada and Britain, though
perhaps not to the degree afforded
them in the latter country, where, when
the gate was thrown wide open in the
19505, an avalanche of funds from them
flooded on to the share markets. At
least some people in the industry here
think that the present restriction on
the disposition of funds has merit in
it, but could do with some easing say
to give more scope for investment in
debentures. Others want to go a good
deal further.
In any case, the trend is for the
companies to get more estates in their
charge with much higher proportions
of equities in their portfolios. That is
a result of many more investors sub-
scribing to the equity cult since the
war, quite often, they admit, because
inflation has eroded the capital and
income of the hard core of trustee in-
vestments a fact which is the sorest
point among the companies themselves.
However, despite the higher equity
content of new estates coming into
their charge, and also their growing
business in handling the investments
of people still living (which they say is
still an ancillary, even if a very im-
portant, part of their present activities),
which give them a bigger finger in
the equity pie, the scope for a much
more lively intrusion will remain limi-
ted until trustee legislation is amended.
In the case of Perpetual Trustees,
the proportion of equity investment to
total held is a little more than half,
that is, 53.6 percent and amounting to
as much as $lBO million. So its foot
is rather more than just inside the
equity door. As Perpetual, which is
an amalgam of three big companies
(Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., Sydney;
Perpetual Executors and Trustee
Association Ltd., Melbourne; and
Queensland Trustees Ltd., Brisbane)
effected in 1963, is by far the biggest of
its kind in Australia, this not necessary
wholly representative of the proportion
nation-wide. But it gives a fairly good
idea of what the statistics might show
if somebody collected them. By way
of comparison, at the end of June
this year the life companies had just
on 20 percent, or $434.6 million, of
their total investments of $2184.1
million in ordinary shares.
While scouting around on this front
it became obvious that the investment
departments of the trustee companies
were like those in the life offices,
not only the hub of their offices but
as one put it, “about the biggest in
the office.” They make no bones about
their being as expert in the invest-
ment game as anybody in the country,
and ever so much more so than the
run-of-the-mill solicitors who so often
snares trustee business ahead of them
from their advanced position in hand-
ling the affairs of people still living.
One of their main aims is to get people
on their books, handle their affairs
before they die. From my observation
they are fully geared up for their thriv-
ing business in this field, which rivals,
but is still subordinate to, the amount
J. W. Dunlop... trustee spread
of property and related work they do
in the deceased-estate area.
The beauty of looking after the affairs
of the living compared with those of
the dead lies not only in that it usually
leads them to take over at the grave,
but also in that it is more profitable
and helps to offset the low scale of rates
they can charge for trust business (these
vary from one to four percent of the
value of assets entrusted regardless of
the length of time of administration).
As Mr. Dunlop pointed out at the Per-
petual meeting, the legislation relating
to rates on deceased estates was passed
last century and in long-term trusts a
trustee’s real remuneration has suffered
from the erosion of money values. That
is quite apart from the fact that many
estates yield no income at all - which
means that trustees sometimes get no
more than the original commission,
and that costs of administration have
climbed over the years and are con-
tinuing to do so. All this is pretty hard
on the trustee.
Talking about the policing of trust
deeds for fixed interest investments,
which one would have thought would
have become much more onerous and
expensive for the companies since the
passage of the Public Borrowings Act,
in the experience of one of the biggest
policemen among the companies, whose
latest coup is the new Myer $l2 million
debenture issue, the new requirements
of the Act have been accommodated
without the incurring of big additional
cost. This work has to be done by
top-level staff and apparently has not
entailed big extra expense, at least not
of the same order as, say, the handling
of a new property trust would. As for
drawing up more watertight trust
deeds for the better safeguard of in-
vestors, this has also been achieved
smoothly with, in Melbourne, four or
five leading solicitors apparently get-
ting together with the big trustee com-
panies to iron out any difficulties.
The trustees don’t say very much
about this area of their business, which,
as we all know, was a rather grey one
a few years back when one of the lead-
ing companies came pretty close to the
legal line over the Reid Murray deben-
ture. One simply has to take their
word for it that a new spirit of vigilance
has emerged from the lessons learned
from so many trust deeds going sour in
recent years in the aftermath of the
1960 boom and believe them when they
say, although one or two companies
(nameless, I’m afraid) have been a bit
awkward in providing all the infor-
mation the trustees of debenture deeds
have required, the rest have co-operated
beautifully. Future investors in deben-
tures, more of which seem to be in the
making after a longish drought, can
take heart from that. At any rate they
can be assured, from what I was told
last week, that the trustee companies
certainly don’t regard their policing
of trust deeds in their charge as a light
task. I’m afraid they used to before
the Public Borrowings Act was passed.


become
a successful
freelance
writer
Take the first step. Enrol with Stott’s,
Australia’s most respected technical
Correspondence college. Get expert,
personal guidance from Stott
instructors who know professional
writing inside and out. Learn how
to write stories and articles that
editors are buying today. Choose
from these modern home-study courses:
Short Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, Script Writing for Radio,
TV Script Writing, Poetry Writing.
Stotts
TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 383 George
St., Sydney. 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
45 Gilles St., Adelaide. 1130 Hay St., Perth.
FILL IN THIS COUPON & POST NOW
Please send me, free and without obliga-
tion, your new Literary Prospectus.
MR./MRS./MISS
ADDRESS
82367
AGE
Samco-Strong
pays attention to
small things. Like nails,
tacks, panel pins,
metallic grindery.
That’s why Samco-
Strong is the big name
in small nails.
423 SMITH STREET, FITZROY
419 1609 419 1865
333 ABERCROMBIE ST., CHIPPENDALE
69 5957
BRISBANE
91 4031
ADELAIDE
71 7182
PERTH
28 1618
5523
SPECULATOR’S
DIARY
An exercise in
promotion of
a new listing
THE OTHER DAY saw a bit of action
in the financial part of downtown New
York. It started when a gleaming red
fire engine importantly roared its way
down crowded Wall Street and skidded
to a dramatic stop in the very front
of the Exchange building. It gathered
momentum as busy Wall Street be-
came even busier and started to fill to
capacity with throngs of expectant and
curious sightseers. And then the whole
thing fizzled out like a dud firecracker.
It was an anti-climax. The vehicle was
merely carrying members of the newly
registered Automatic Fire Sprinkler
Corporation to celebrations for their
first day of official listing on the
Exchange board.
Thus another company pulled off a
successful coup for attracting attention
to their shares. Good P.R.? It’s hard
to say, but from the lack of this type
of gimmick used in Australia it would
seem that our local directors don’t think
so. Personally, I wouldn’t mind seeing
a bit of this sort of promotion being
used to liven up the generally unex-
citing balance sheets and prospectuses
that are continually being fed up to us.
To me, the idea of a multi-barrelled
brewery cart rolling to a stop in front
of the Exchange would be P.R. of the
very first order.
A company whose image is on the
way up is Email. Its half-yearly report
for the six months to June has shown
that the dramatic about-face of last year
was not just a flash in the pan. Direc-
tors reported that the company traded
very strongly for the first eight months
of the current year and that both sales
and net profits were above those of last
year (and last year’s weren’t bad at
all!). Just to make sure everyone got
the message, they increased the interim
dividend from 3.5 to 5 percent.
This could mean (and probably
does) a return to an annual dividend
rate of ten percent, which was the rate
the company used to pay before it got
into trouble back in 1964. That was
the year the profit dieted itself down
from a fit and healthy $1.2 million to a
puny $694,000. However, all that sort
of thing now looks to be in the past.
Last year’s profit was $1.4 million and
there is every indication that this year
will be even better. Incidentally, the
long-term prospects for Email also
look bright. In league with its mate,
American Meter Company of the U.S.,
the company should do very well in-
deed out of the gas meters it makes
when the natural gas we have been
hearing so much about actually begins
to flow into Australian kitchens.
What I think has been and is gas
this year, is the rights market. So much
so that I’ve decided to give it another
go. This time it’s Pioneer Concrete
Services, who are currently raising $3.6
million with a one-for-five issue at 100
percent premium. Pioneer directors
say they are confident of maintaining
both the current dividend rate (15 per-
cent) and the earning rate (25 percent)
in the current year. To help them on
their way in achieving this estimate will
be the first full year’s profits from Row-
lands Quarries and from the newly re-
organised F. W. Williams group. Also,
growth in local operations should be
buoyant because of the currently good
economic climate (so important to a
company like Pioneer); all indications
are that the overseas operations are
also maintaining their past growth
record. The only fly in the ointment
in the overseas operations is Hong
Kong. Still, you never know, the
Chinese might suddenly decide to do
a Russia and throw up their own con-
concrete wall.
Sales for the week were Hanimex
and Federal Hotels. Hanimex (com-
monly known around the Exchange as
Ham and Eggs) showed a ldss of $49
after ten months in the portfolio, while
Federal Hotels earned $l2 after only
four weeks. The moral to be learned
is that Speculator’s stocks should be
treated as such and not as investments.
The only reasons for hanging on to a
speculative stock beyond the period of
time originally planned are that cir-
cumstances have changed (as is often
the case), and it is felt the period of
time for speculation should be exten-
ded, or (much better) if the stock’s
price just keeps rising. Easy to say,
difficult to do.
BOUGHT
300 Email $0.71 $217
600 Pioneer Concrete,
rights $0.24 $196
SOLD
400 Hanimex $1.28 $522
1000 Federal Hotels $0.21 $206
This week my account is still over-
drawn, but only for a very small
amount $l3B.
Shares Company Date Cost per
Bought Share Price
300 Wormald 8/3/67 .75 .63
500 T. C. Whittle 10/3/67 .70 66
200 Allied Mills 26/4/67 1.69 1.57
400 General Credits 27/4/67 .62 .67
200 Chamberlain 3/5/67 1 67 1.48
200 Bradford Cotton 6/6/67 .58 .65
200 !R. W. Miller 14/6/67 1 35 1 34
400 Hamersley 25/7/67 6 48 8 80
200 Howard Smith 25/7/67 3.34 3.70
300 Ralta Holdings (25/7/67 .56 .63
300 William Adams 17/8/67 2.12 2 25
200 Stegbar 17/8/67 1.46 1 62
200 Thomas Nat. Trans. 17/8/67 1.30 1.30
200 Westralian 29/8/67 1.17 1.57
500 Concrete Ind. 30/8/67 .47 .43
300 Tniess 5/9/67 2 18 2 92
'2OO Consolidated Rutile 5/9/67 1.15 1.50
100 Trade 'Credits 20/9/67 4.75 4 50
300 Bennett 8< Wood 3/10/67 1.35 1.45
300 Nylex 3/10/67 .95 .99
400 1C.8.C. rts. 10/10/67 1.55 1.61
350 Hilton Corp,. 10/10/67 1.08 1 10
300 Email 17/10/67 .71 .71
800 Pioneer Concrete
rights 17/10//67 .24 .24


WILD CAT PAGES
Putting your money on the banks
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
By JASON
BUYING BANK SHARES has been
a worthwhile operation this year; so far
in 1967 they have risen by one quarter
in value according to the Sydney share
price index. And the latest round of
bank profits shows that the market was
right.
Provided monetary policy does not
get unexpectedly tight in the near
future, it seems they should all do very
well in the current year, too. For the
new liberalising of their activities by
the Reserve Bank had only a small
impact on last year’s profit; in the
current year, the greater ability to com-
pete against the other financial institu-
tions should bring increased rewards.
The figures in tables on this page
seem to suggest that the banks have
responded to the easier money situation
in different ways; the National has in-
creased its advances at double the rate
it has lifted its deposits in the past four
years, while the CBC has lifted its ad-
vances only slightly more than deposits.
So the degree of vulnerability of the
banks to, say, tightening of monetary
policy once again is clearly different
from bank to bank. One implication of
the table of banking profits (excluding
income from finance company associ-
ates) to advances is that banks with
lower ratios, like the CBA, the National,
the CBC, and the ES & A should surely
have some scope to improve their pro-
fits, unless the increased profitability of
the two leaders, the Wales and the
ANZ, comes from other more insti-
tutional factors rather than greater
managerial skill.
Banking profit as a % of advances (a)
1963 1967
ANZ 1.01 1 37*
N.S.W 1.26 1.18
CBA 0 06 0.76
CBC 0 08 0 96
National 0.52 0.85
ES & A 0 53 0 90
Adelaide 0 90 0 87*
* For 1965-66.
(a) Excluding finance company dividends
But the thing with bank profits is
that they must all be taken with a
grain of salt; they do not necessarily
reflect the real profitability of banks
at any one time, for bankers take the
view that it would be unwise to allow
them to fluctuate up and down too
much. Nevertheless, the trend reflected
here is probably realistic.
But which bank is the one to buy?
The market clearly thinks the Bank of
N.S.W. is the best and it is cer-
tainly the biggest. It yields only 3
percent on dividends against the 3.9
to 4 percent that the market has placed
on all the other banks. And last week’s
Wales’ profit rise was certainly hand-
some.
Rise in Deposits Rise in Advances-
Since 1963 Since 1963
ANZ 37 43
N.S.W. 37Va 42
C BA 30 37
CBC 30 34
National 25 50
ES & A 33 15
Adelaide 17 40
Another striking feature about the
Wales’ profitability is that its banking
profits (excluding dividends from its
finance associate) have fallen as a pro-
portion of its total advances from their
1963 levels of 1.26 percent to the latest
1.18 percent. At least this is an im-
provement over the 1965-66 figure of
1.08 percent. In any event, it is a far
better proportion than all other banks
enjoy except the ANZ, indicating it is
the second most profitable banker.
Nevertheless, the implications of this,
lower advances/profits ratio are in-
triguing in a period in which all other
Australian trading banks increased their
ratio. But the answer may be that since
the Wales is so far ahead of most of
them, they are simply catching up.
Net Profit % of net Profit
rise since 1962 from finance associates
ANZ 122* 10*
Wales 62 13
C BA 111 8
CBC 75 16
National 117 12
ES & A 140 56
Adelaide 60* 37*
* To 1965-66.
The Wales’ rate of net profit rise
has also been smaller than the other
banks, but it started out on a much
higher base. Since 1962 its profits have
risen by 62 percent, while most of its
rivals have managed to double theirs
in the same period. Nevertheless, it
appears that the Wales is still the in-
dustry’s leader, with its rise in deposits
being the greatest of all the banks (but
closely followed by the ANZ)! But the
market could hope for an improvement
in its earning rate and on its profits
to advances ratio in coming years if it
is to maintain its lead over the ANZ,
which has been doing remarkably well.
How do the banks compare as net
profit earners? Clearly the most suc-
cessful in increasing its profits has been
the ES & A, and it is not simply be-
cause of its Esanda profits, the only
finance company consolidated into a
bank. For, in the past five years, the
proportion that Esanda has made up
of the ES & A’s profits has fallen from
70 percent to 56 percent as the ES &
A’s banking profitability has gone up
from 0.53 percent on advances to 0.9
The Chartist says:
JAMES WALLACE HOLDINGS would be well worth considering by investors as
a recovery situation with the potential of considerable capital appreciation.
Although the published chart has only been reproduced back to 1962, the past history
from 1960 indicated a stock of a rather cyclical nature and would have become a
“technical” sell about $1.60 in the middle of 1962, when a downtrend commenced
with a “false” breakout early in 1964, when prices rose to $1.15. From this point
the stock developed strong recessive tendencies and finally formed a base above the
15c level. Prices have risen as high as 43c recently; this would be considered a
breakout from the long-term downtrend. The stock is now in a reaction stage, but
the base consolidation suggests a short-term rise to between 65c and 70c and a
more optimistic long-term target close to $1.60. Last sale price on 17/10/67 —34c.


Improve
the productivity
of your office with
the new, easy-to-use
Dictaphone
Europa
For an obligation-free
demonstration, contact
the sole Australian
distributors:
magnetic
dictating machine
COMMERCIAL
MACHINES PTY. LTD.
(A Group member of Business
Equipment Holdings Ltd.)
Melbourne: 329-7766, Sydney: 29-6537,
Brisbane: 2-3115, Adelaide: 51-6026,
Perth: 21-7002, Hobart: 3-3358,
Launceston: 2-4676.
o
TAPHOMtGUPOpa
2483/B
Jacoby Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd.
are currently displaying
the full range of exciting
SONY Tape Recorders and the
latest SONY development ...
the Home Video Recorder
at the
International Trade Fair
20th-28th October, 1967
Sydney Showground
percent. But the profit rise seems
largely due to the bank doing other
than conventional “advances” business,
for its advances have risen by only 15
percent in the past four years, less than
half the rate of most of its rivals, while
its deposits have risen by one third.
But the ES & A rate of profit rise looks
like being toppled by another British-
based bank, the ANZ, when its figures
for the year are released. For even by
1965-66, which was not a particularly
good year for the banking industry, the
ANZ had managed to lift its profits by
122 percent, and it clearly had the
best banking profit to advances ratio
that had risen from 1.01 percent to
1.37 percent in four years. Its banking
income has risen at a far faster rate
than its dividends from its holding in
lAC, which now provides only 10 per-
cent of its profit against 22 percent five
years ago. And its earning rate on capi-
tal is now well up.
Last week’s impressive 40 percent
profit rise from the National Bank has
brought it a 117 percent profit rise in
the past five years and has reflected a
significant increase in its profitability
on advances, which has risen from 0.52
to 0.85 percent. At the same time its
earnings from Custom Credit have
made up a dwindling proportion of its
profits, having fallen from 40 percent
to only 12 percent and not only in a
proportionate fall, but in an actual drop
of $280,000, The impact of an easier
monetary policy on the National’s
earnings can be seen from the fact
that a 25 percent rise in deposits in the
past four years has resulted in a 50
percent lift in advances.
The Commercial Bank of Australia’s
111 percent profit rise is dubious, as its
profit-to-deposits ratio has gone up
only modestly from 0.6 percent to 0.76
percent. But its dividends from its hire-
purchase finance associate, General
Credits, has risen from nothing to 8
percent of group profits in that time.
And it has lent 37 percent more now
than four years ago, although it has
increased its deposits by only 30 per-
cent more.
The fact that the Commercial Bank-
ing Co. of Sydney, whose deposits also
rose by 30 percent, has only lifted its ad-
vances by 34 percent in that period may
explain why its profit rise is only 75
percent over that time. For its profit-
to-advances proportion has risen by
0.16 to 0.96 percent. Its dividend from
CAGA now makes up 16 percent in-
stead of 15 percent of net profit as it
did five years ago.
All these figures clearly suggest that
the ANZ and the Wales have been the
best banks for investors, but that there
is considerable scope for improvement
by the others in their banking profit-
ability. And the wider spread of their
activities could reduce the seriousness
of any tightening of liquidity. This is
still an interesting industry despite the
recent price rise of the shares.


ECONOMIC
POLICY
RESEARCH
The General Financial and Economic
Policy Branch of the Commonwealth
Treasury has opportunities for gradu-
ates of superior academic attainment
to work in the fields of economic
policy and research. The areas of work
include fiscal policy, Commonwealth-
State financial relations, internal
economic conditions and short-term
forecasting, research into longer-
range questions of expenditure and re-
sources, international economic rela-
tions and the balance of payments.
SALARY Positions are available at
two levels —•
Research Officer, Grade 1,
$3,510-$4,485
Research Officer, Grade 2,
$4,485-$5,101
Commencing salaries within the ranges
will depend upon qualifications and ex-
perience.
QUALIFICATIONS Degree in Econ-
omics, Commerce or Arts (Economics)
at First or Second Class Honours
level. Applicants for Grade 2 positions
should have had appropriate exper-
ience in research or teaching in the
economic field since graduation. Final
year students may apply for Research
Officer, Grade 1 positions.
Additional information and applica-
tion forms may be obtained from the
Secretary,
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY,
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
Applications close December 1, 1967.
CADETSHIPS
ECONOMIC POLICY
AND RESEARCH
Undergraduates completing in
1967 the second or third year
of a course leading towardls a
degree in Economics, Commerce
or Arts (Economics) at honours
standard are offered cadetships
in the General Financial and
Economic Policy Branch of the
Commonwealth Treasury. The
areas of work cpen to cadets
after graduation include fiscal
policy. Commonwealth - State
financial relations, international
economic relations and l the bal-
ance of payments, domestic eco-
nomic conditions and short-term
forecasting, research into longer-
range questions of expenditure
and resources.
SALARY:
During training within the
range $1350-$1542, $2833-$2990,
depending on age. On gradua-
tion. cadets will be promoted
to Research Officer Grade 1,
with a salary in the range of
$3510-$4485 (Male), $3082-$4057
(Female).
REFUND OF FEES:
Based on a sliding scale in re-
lation to salary.
Additional information and
application forms may he ob-
tained from—
The Secretary,
Department of the Treasury,
CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600.
Applications close November 9,
I QC'? 7
The Melbourne market
A charge of the nickel brigade
IT WAS A WEEK to wear investment
affections on the sleeve, close to nickel
cuff links; a week when the big-timers
which brokers’ circulars have recently
be fond of to a fault, say' WMC and
BHP, performed like weight-for-age
horses in a welter beaten for pace
on the day. There’s no need to go
deeply into that, though, because a lot
of those with nickel in their saddle-bags
during this pre-Caulfield Cup week are
bound to come back to the field. As
happened after the 1953 Rough Range
oil strike, the last time so many office
girls in Melbourne took the plunge in
Little Collins Street and when Every-
man put his money on oil search can-
didates with usually only tenement
lines drawn on a map to guide them,
the bookies will take the lot (almost).
Great Boulder’s board got hauled
over the coals for issuing two field re-
ports in suprisingly close succession and
gave the excuse, which seemed reason-
able, that it was merely trying to avoid
a false market developing in the shares.
In fact it only succeeded in inflaming
speculation in the shares which, to-
gether with all the wild buying going
on of any and everything with a sug-
gestion of nickel on it, obliged the
chairman of the local exchange, C. T.
Looker, to sound a warning that fingers
would get burnt.
In the prevailing atmosphere genuine
investment was rather taking a back
seat, but by the end of the week, when
profit-taking swept through the mining
market, at any rate BHP was given a
lot more thought, getting up' to $15.50
on its oil development prospects. This
wasn’t a turning-away from minerals
to give industrials a run, though, and,
to show where the market’s true heart
lies at present to their temporary ex-
clusion, it got an offshore scent from
Woodside, whose drilling off the north
Australian coast put them up a treat.
ALL THIS IS GRIST to the stock-
broker’s mill and, even if the old hands
know that the frenzied forum will
sober down in due course, its lure has
not been lost on aspiring candidates
for membership of the exchange. So
much so that, with the accession of
B. A. Prior, who has been with A.
Clarke & Co. since he left school a few
years ago and who bought the seat of
W. K. Olver, formerly of J. B. Were
& Son, there are now no vacancies
for membership. the first time this
has been so for many years. Four seats
have been sold in the past three months
with Prior, at 27, the youngest pur-
chaser. What is more, the price of
seats has been going up. After sinking
to a low of $16,000 in recent years,
the latest seat cost $5OO more than
that. Another by-product of the cur-
rent boom is that broking firms have
had to increase their staffs, which were
run down progressively after 1960, and
up to recently have remained down.
They’re finding it just a little difficult
to get the right people, especially in
the higher advisory and dealers’
echelons.
WITH THE 1966-67 results season
on its final legs and chairmen now in
full cry, underlining the good things
in their reports, dilating on the profit
and economic horizons, et cetera, the
market might have been expected to
take more nbtice than it did of the
best company result of the week, that
of the National Bank. As it was, the
star turns among the banks during the
week were the E S & A up to 710,
the ANZ to 750, and the Wales to 645,
all peak points for the year. Compared
with these, whose yields are 3.2, 4.0,
and 3.1 respectively, the National,
which yields 3.9, was left out in the
cold. Granted that all the banks have
been enjoying very good weather,
especially that blown up from the
direction of the Reserve Bank this
past year or so, in fact the National,
which now posts a $1.3 million to
$4.6 million profit increase, lifting-
earnings from 13.1 to 18.2 percent
(most of which came from the trading
bank), would appear to have done as
well, if not better than any of them.
But its share price has moved up only
from a low of 193 to 260 this year, the
E S & A’s from 542 to 740, the ANZ’s
from 566 to 750, and the Wales’ from
500 to 654 all much more propor-
tionally.
TWO SUCH BIG swallows as Myers
and Australian Newsprint winging in-
to the capital market to raise $lB
million between them in debenture
issue do not necessarily make a summer
for it, but they show which way the
wind could be blowing. At the Bren-
ton Investments meeting down at the
new Capel Court during the week, Mr.
J. Campbell Johnston, deputising in
the chair for Mr. Ricketson, thought
there were other straws about, though,
which suggested that there could be
a revival of private fixed investment in
the next six months, which would be
reflected in increased new issue activity
and some hardening of interest rates,
if not any great change in the present
pattern of rates. “It is likely,” he
stated, “that an increase in the num-
ber of borrowers, with different credit
ratings, would lead to an increase in
issues carrying interest rates at the
higher end of the current interest rate
pattern.” The market has already taken
note of the fact that some rates in the
latest issues by AGC and Mutual Ac-
ceptance carry some rates slightly
higher than in the immediately pro-
ceeding ones.


Behind the balance sheets
Australian Chemical turns corner
ITS PERFORMANCE has been poor,
its accounts are unimpressive, and the
standard of reporting is low. But Aus-
tralian Chemical Holdings Ltd., the
local subsidiary of the Hercules Powder
Co. of the U.S., has real investment
appeal at present prices around the
$1.65 mark. Its worst problems seem
largely behind it; its dividend looks at
least secure; its profits are apparently
continuing last year’s rise; and, at last,
the benefits that were supposed to follow
after the company succumbed to the
Hercules bid three years ago may be
beginning to flow.
Admittedly, the recent annual report
gives little tangible evidence of solid
improvement. For despite last year’s
recovery, the 1967 profit was 16 percent
lower than three years ago, and the
earning rate of 11 percent just scraped
past the usual 10 percent dividend. No
doubt net profit would have been con-
siderably better had the group not been
obliged to make retiring allowances
totalling $105,304 for its managing
director, Mr. A. C. Hatrick, some part
of which appeared to be provided for
in the accounts.
But at least the 1966-67 profit was
80 percent better than the previous
year’s even if half of this rise was
due only to a sharp cut in the taxation
provision and if the full consolidation
of a subsidiary for the first time was
another factor (outside shareholders’
share of profits fell by $14,000). This
profit rise was stated as being due to
a “substantial profit recovery” by the
engineering division (largely attributed
to “reorganisation”) but only “main-
tained” sales turnover and profits from
the chemical division. It did not seem
to be related to any sizable increase in
business.
Why then did stocks go up by about
one quarter, debtors by the same
amount, and trade creditors by 80 per-
cent? Directors do not say. The com-
pany also maintains a massive silence
about the effect of last year’s signifi-
cant chemical tariff decision on its pro-
fitability; as both an importer and
manufacturer of industrial chemicals,
the company is clearly affected. It also
has failed to keep up to date the in-
teresting break-up of sales it presented
three years ago (before the Hercules
takeover) that showed makers of sur-
face coatings were the greatest single
users of ACH products, taking 33 per-
cent, followed by automotive and trans-
port with 17 percent, plastics with 12
percent, building and general engineer-
ing each with seven percent, paper six
percent, adhesives and rubber five per-
cent, printing four percent, other
chemicals three percent, and agriculture
two percent. With the economy now
giving signs of picking up in all of
these areas, the companies’ sales should
be improving. And they are.
Last week the chairman told the
annual meeting of a 10 percent turn-
over and 20 percent profit improve-
ment for the first quarter of the cur-
rent year. This suggests that the “re-
organisation of management,” which
directors expected to “enhance profit-
ability in the future,” is already be-
ginning to pay off. In this reorganisa-
tion, the company’s operations have
been divisionalised and rationalised.
The founder, Mr. A. C. Hatrick,
retired from the managing director’s
post in the last financial year in favor
of another Australian, Mr. J. W. Sad-
ler. The influence of the American
directors, which includes an executive
director resident in Australia, could be
felt more. Certainly Hercules is very
interested in ACH’s progress and
development, and American managerial
techniques and schemes are more in
evidence. Hercules made it clear in
November, 1964, when it made the
offer for half ACH’s capital (with
whom it had been associated for over
30 years), that unless they obtained
an active financial interest they would
not contribute to widen the company’s
range of products to include other
Hercules materials and future develop-
ments expected from research. (Her-
cules research budget in 1965 was over
s2om., and it then had 40 U.S. plants
and 28 outside the U.S. counting.seven
associated with ACH.) At that time
it forecast that in the medium and
long term, Hercules’ active participa-
tion would increase ACH’s profitability
and stability.
The major problem apparent was the
Die Casters’ subsidiary, which was taken
over in 1961, and although profitable
up to that point has hardly been profit-
able since. The 1961 credit squeeze
brought intense competition in its field
of contract jobbing work largely for
the auto industry. In 1964-65 ACH
transferred the zinc die-casting activities
of Die Casters from Collingwood (Vic.)
to Elizabeth (S.A.), but, in less than
two years, the Elizabeth operation was
closed down and part of the plant
transferred back to Collingwood.
Operating expenses were consider-
ably reduced by the S.A. closure, but
$150,000 was provided in 1966 accounts
and another $150,000 in 1967 accounts
against possible loss on realisation, and
the property and surplus plant are still
unsold. Efforts to attract an occupant
to the factory with offers of joint ven-
ture or on a leasing basis have not
reached final conclusion yet. The
realisation of this asset would have a
useful impact on profits. Tax provided
in 1967 was only 28c in the $, relief
being obtained from Die Casters’ tax
losses. These are not yet exhausted, but
could expire or be eliminated very soon.
Included in ACH’s chemical division
is ACH’s 51 percent interest in Pacific
Safflower (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., producing
safflower and linseed oils and stock
foods. Takeover of Harold Meggitt in
February, 1966, gave the company
crushing facilities at Gladesville. Al-
though larger crops are being handled,
this is probably a nominal profit source
for the group, as world prices are de-
pressed and emergency tariff protection
has been sought against imports. Manu-
facturing facilities now comprise A. C.
Hatrick’s chemical plant at Botany
(N.S.W.), a papermaking chemical
plant at Springvale (Vic.), and the
Halmeg crushing mill at Gladesville
(N.S.W.) for the Australian chemical
division, Spurways plants at Alexandria
and Leichhardt (N.S.W.) and Colling-
wood (Vic.) for the Australian engin-
eering division, and chemical plants at
Wellington and -Auckland (N.Z.).
Although in March, 1966, the chair-
man spoke of considerable capital ex-
penditure commitments in company
planning, amounts unprovided for in
accounts of the last three years have
been steady around $200,000. Con-
tinual expenditure is required on plant,
but it has property surplus to its needs.
The closer relationship with Hercules
has led to infusion of loan funds from
North America. Hercules of Canada
lent sA.lm. without security, then the
company offered s2m. debentures to
stockholders and rearranged corporate
finances by issuing demand debentures
to company bankers. By 1967 group
accounts revealed long term liabilities
of almost ssm., and in addition loans
repayable within the year of sl.7m.
and bank overdrafts of $3.75m.
With big and powerful friends across
the Pacific, ACH need not worry un-
duly about where to obtain finance. It
does seem ACH has turned the corner
and will earn more over and above the
10 percent dividend which was held
despite the short fall in earnings the
year before last. The shares, which
cost Hercules $2.50 in 1964, are cur-
rently $1.65, a fall which is not uncom-
mon for companies the subject of
partial takeovers. This price gives
a dividend income of over 6 percent
from a stake in the basic industry of
chemicals manufacture which has few
openings for local share investment.
June 30 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967
Working profit 1668 2000 2124 1487 1712
Depreciation 563 602 620 647 710
Tax 392 537 629 440 276
Net profit 713 861 875 400 726
Earning rate 13 5 13.7 13 9 6 4 11.0
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Earning rate on
Shareholders’
funds- 5.9 7.0 7.0 3.3 5.7
Current ratio 18 19 1.6 1.6 1.6
Fixed assets 10,077 10,020 10,142 10,911 12,103
Dividend yield (a) 4 5 5.3 3.8 5.9 5.4
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 16 4 13.9 ,18 9 12 2 17 0
High price (b) $2.47 255 2.70 2.55 193
Low price (b) $1.68 1.75 2.35 1.50 1.55
(a) End of September.
(b) Calendar year (1967 to date).
Current price $1.65, yielding 6.1% on income
6.5% on earnings


HEADMASTER
KNOX GRAMMAR SCHOOL
WAHROONGA, N.S.W. 2076
Applications are invited for the
position of Headmaster.
Closing date of applications:
31st December, 1967.
Appointment to take effect at the
end of Ist Term, 1969
Enquiries to
A. M. Murdoch, Esq., M.C.,
The Chairman of the Council,
Knox Grammar School,
WAHROONGA, N.S.W. 2076.
AUSTRALIA
HEADMASTER
ALBURY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
N.S.W. 2640
A MEMBER SCHOOL OF
HEADMASTERS' CONFERENCE
Applications are invited for the position
of Headmaster. Closing date of appli-
cations 31st December, 1967. Appoint-
ment commences end Ist Term 1969.
Enquiries to
D. W. HAGUE, Esq.,
Chairman of the Council,
Albury Grammar School,
P.O. Box 41,
ALBURY. N.S.W. 2640.
AUSTRALIA.
CROMWELL COLLEGE
University of Queensland,
Walcott Street, St. Lucia.
Founded by the Congregational
Churches.
Expanding to provide residence for 160
male students in 1968.
Applications invited for residence also
for possible Tutorships.
Principal:
Rev. G. Lindsay Lockley, M.A., B.D.
Vice-Principal:
Rev. Alex. Steele Craik, 8.D., LL.B.
Write for Brochure and details.
Security analysis
A changing status for
the shares of IAC
lAC HOLDINGS LIMITED is one of
the oldest Australian hire-purchase com-
panies. At one time it was the largest
on the basis of the amount of outstand-
ings. Operations were commenced in
1930, but the shares were not listed
until 1948 and the insurance interests
were not acquired until 1951. Its bank
affiliation did not take place until
October, 1957, and, although the ANZ
Bank has increased its holding since that
time, the association, in terms of the
percentage of the capital held by the
affiliated bank, is still the smallest in
the hire-purchase group.
The last issue to shareholders was
in August, 1962, when the company
made a one-for-three “bonus” issue.
The quotation marks are necessary here
because the shareholders received
another piece of paper only and also
took a cut in dividend income. Prior
to the issue, the dividend rate was
16 2-3rd percent, so a holder of 300
shares would have received 30 pence
(the equivalent of 25 cents). After the
issue, the dividend rate was reduced to
11 2-3rd percent so that the dividend
received from 300 old shares plus 100
bonus shares was only 28 pence. —a re-
duction of 6 2-3rd percent.
Early in 1965, just over 1.6 million
ordinary shares were issued to the ANZ
Bank at a price of 75 cents per share.
The bank now holds 10 million shares
according to the latest prospectus, about
22 percent of lAC Holdings’ total
ordinary capital. This percentage is
still a long way short of the 40 percent
held by most other banks in their hire-
purchase affiliates.
Bearing in mind that, during the
1950 s—at least until the banks took
their interests—the hire-purchase com-
panies held the place in the investing
public’s eyes now held by the mining
companies, it is interesting to speculate
on the reason behind their fall from
grace. Many experts in hire purchase
arose during the 1950 s and many recom-
mendations were made as to the best
company in the group. Generally, the
“best” company of that period has not
turned out to be the best company
today. About 1960 there began mutter-
ings about the income-to-mature pro-
vision and the “Rule of 78.” Later it
was discovered that these factors had
a material bearing on the profits of a
finance company and it was not suffi-
cient merely to calculate the percentage
which the provision bore to total out-
standings to assess its adequacy. About
the same time, it was realised that
competition had also set in and price/
earnings multiples of hire-purchase com-
panies haven’t been the same since.
All in all, lAC seems to have been
the least affected by these various
problems, except that the share price
and the price/earnings multiple have
been gradually depressed.
In looking at the “vital statistics” of
a hire-purchase company, some varia-
tions are necessary from those of an
industrial company. I have selected
the following:
Yea'r to December 31 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Net earnings s’ooo 4176 4188 3994 4388 4947
Ordinary capital $ mill. 22.2 22.2 22.2 123.0 23 0
Ordinary SHF $ mill. 34.8 36.1 37 5 40.2 42.4
Net earnings %
Ordinary capital 18.8 18.9 18.0 19.1 21.4
Ordinary SHF 12.1 11.6 10.7 10.9 11.6
Borrowings/SH F
(S 100 ) 325 369 385 371 366
Income to mature %
gross outstandings 18.9 17.6 16.2 15.1 15 0
Tax % pre-tax profit 37.5 35.1 42.9 42 4 41.3
Per share
Net tangible assets c 78 82 85 87 92
Earnings c 9.4 9.1 9.0 9.5 10 5
Dividends c 5.8 5.8 5 8 5.9 6.0
Share prices
High c 160 145 150 108 94
Low c 1100 108 101 82 77
Assisted to some extent by an increase
of nearly 13 percent in the net profit
for the first half of 1967, the share
price increased to $1.12, but currently
the shares are selling at about $l.OO.
At one time during the current calendar
year, the price fell as low as 85 cents.
Assuming that this price was recorded
before the much improved 1966 profit
was announced, the shares were then
selling at nine times earnings. At the
moment they are selling at 9J times
earnings. However, as recently as 1964,
the price was $1.50, which was 16J
times 1963 earnings and showed a
dividend yield of 3.9 percent compared
with today’s 6 percent.
The reason for this change in the
status of the shares is difficult for the
analyst to determine—if he 'still believes
that the share price is a result of objec-
tive judgments by investors. It must
surely be quite clear that the profits of
any finance company are determined by
the difference between the rate of
interest at which it lends and the rate
of interest at which it borrows. Other
factors intrude, such as the quality of
the paper written (that is, the loans that
are made) and the income-to-mature
provision mentioned earlier. So far as
these two factors are concerned, lAC
does not appear to make any provision
for bad or doubtful debts, but the figure
for “Amounts due and to mature under
current contracts and other amounts
receivable” is shown “less provision for
losses.” The amount of this provision
and any transfers to or from it are not
disclosed, so far as I am aware.
Subject to any reservations that one
might have when one has no worth-
while information on these two impor-
tant factors, the results of the finance
group seem to have been improving
in recent years. The return on net out-
standings has been better, so far as can
be judged. Estimates are necessary


INVEST IN
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
AND MORTGAGE
TRUST NO. 1
1,000,000 UNITS AT $1 EACH
MANAGER: MORTGAGE MANAGEMENT LIMITED
(An Approved Lender under the Housing Loans Insurance
Act 1965-1966 of the Commonwealth Of Australia)
®
UNDERWRITERS: PATRICK & COMPANY
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
2 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
150 Queen Street, Melbourne
220 Crown Street, Wollongong
Amount Underwritten —500,000 Units
APPLICATION LISTS OPEN Ist NOVEMBER, 1967
HOW TO APPLY
APPLICATIONS FOR UNITS CAN BE ACCEPTED ONLY ON ONE
OF THE PRINTED FORMS ATTACHED TO THE PROSPECTUS,
AVAILABLE FROM THE UNDERWRITERS, PATRICK & COMPANY
(MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE LIMITED) OR
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN
AUSTRALIA.
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
Mortgage Management Limited,
Anchor House, Cnr. Bridge & George Streets, Sydney, 2000. Tel.: 27-6961
Please send a copy of the Prospectus.
Name
State M.M.8.24
Address
because while the company gives a split-
up of net profit after tax between the
finance and insurance groups, it is neces-
sary to estimate tax provided by the two
groups and also the assets employed.
For simplicity, I have assumed that any
tax savings was made by the insurance
group and also that all investments are
held by the insurance group. The latter
assumption is probably unrealistic but
it is the best that can be done. The
trend in the percentage of net profit
before tax and interest to average “net
outstandings” has been as follows:
Year to December 31 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
percentages 86 84 85 8.5 8.7
There has been some evidence of an
improving trend since 1963; the interest-
ing fact is the decline that has occurred
in the average rate of interest paid on
borrowings. This figure is calculated
by dividing the figure for interest given
in the consolidated profit-and-loss
account by the average of the figures
for borrowings (shown in the consoli-
dated balance sheet) at the beginning
and end of the year. The resulting per-
centages are:
Year to December 31 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
percentages 7.0 68 6.7 6.6 6.4
Nevertheless, the factor which prob-
ably could have the most bearing on
future earnings is the borrowing limita-
tion under the trust deed. It seems
likely that lAC can borrow consider-
ably more than it has borrowed to date
without making any increase in ordinary
capital. Unfortunately, I find it too
difficult to read the auditor’s report in
the latest prospectus. The insurance
subsidiaries are excluded from the group
of “lAC” companies which have
guaranteed the borrowings and there-
fore the borrowing limitations relate to
the consolidated accounts of the group
excluding the insurance subsidiaries.
The figures produced for the balance
sheets of the group and the two hold-
ing companies do not appear to make
this exclusion.
The profits of the finance and insur-
ance groups as disclosed in the annual
reports have been as under:
Year to December 31 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Finance s'ooo 3430 3620 3776 4126 4376
Insurance s'ooo 733(a) 687 335 369 686
(a) Twelve months to June 30, 1962.
If it is correct that the company can
increase its borrowings by another $lOO
million before it becomes necessary to
raise further capital, then earnings from
the finance group alone could be raised
to about $5.7 million. With additional
equity funds coming from plough-
back, plus better results from the
insurance group, it is possible to see a
50 percent increase in earnings per
share. However, the average rate of
increase in borrowed funds has been
$lO million per annum over the past
few years, so it will take ten years to
achieve the ultimate.
The interesting question is “Will
dividends increase at the same rate as
earnings?” If one could be assured
of this, lAC Holdings shares would be
attractive at around $l.OO.


TEACHER
to take
JUNIOR SEC.
FRENCH and HISTORY or
GEOGRAPHY
Apply Headmaster
C.B.S. ST. KILDA EAST. 3183
PLU M C AKE
Tl&tn/ wSsrnct
iasmsEansm
89c
BA^
A
tp
<3
%
&V
75c
/wacbarems
MILO COOL
HARMONY
77c
Mac Baren’s
FINE PIPE
TOBACCOS
V
*uuv mre coioiaswtir
VIRGINIA
A HIGH CLASS SMOKING TOBACCO
Special Blend
75c
Qv\AC barer gN
o liiill o
MIXTURE
S. y
79c
5A271
Mining
Not too much glitter in tin
PROGRESS IN MINING ventures is
not exactly a straight-line graph, as
present speculators in Great Boulder
may one day discover to their cost.
Trouble is usually just around the
corner. Tin has more trouble spots
than any other segment of Australian
mining at the moment, what with
the whole future at Greenbushes in
serious doubt, Tableland reporting on
its worst year since the loss in 1963,
Renison at wars with its new mill, and
so forth. The only relieving news has
come from the Aberfoyle Group via the
latest twelve weeks’ report (to Septem-
ber 23).
Greenbushes’ dredge was shut down
in August (the company is an associ-
ate, not a subsidiary, as are the other
four tin companies in the Aberfoyle
Holdings group). NAUC’s Dorset
dredge recovered only 16.06 (31.20)
tons of concentrates and Storey’s Creek
17.35 (25.7). But output was higher
from Ardlethan, up from 156.97 to
162.26 tons, while Aberfoyle Tin NL’s
production of tin concentrates rose
from 157.90 to 160.80 tons.
There’s been no further informa-
tion out of Greenbushes on the efforts
of the Aberfoyle managing director to
rescue it, but reports from Renison on
efforts to get the new mill through
its teething troubles are disheartening
"even if all will doubtless come right in
the end. With further modifications to
the mill being made, it must be ex-
pected that dislocation in the recovery
processes will continue and that the
rate of recovery will suffer as it has
done in the latest production period
(four weeks to September 20), when
average recovery from millings dropped
to 35 percent, though a maximum of 40
percent was achieved at one stage of
the period. This compares with a rate
of 60 percent from the old mill. Over-
all, only 112 tons of tin concentrates
were produced in the latest four weeks,
compared with 139 in the previous
period, but this sharp drop wasn’t only
the result of trouble with the new mill,
because the quantity of ore was down
from 24,902 to 20,268 tons. Against
that, a rather higher grade of ore was
treated compared with the previous
period.
From the backblocks of Queensland,
Tableland’s performance over the years
has looked more like a bent cross-cut
saw than a straight-line graph. In
1965-66 it had a bumper year, pushing
up the payout from 60 to 70 cents after
a profit jump from $397,850 to
$481,057. Three years before that it
lost $21,062. The latest episode in this
switchback is a drop in profit to
$118,794 for the year to June, 1967, and
the omission of a final dividend, making
the 20 cent interim on the $2 shares
the only payment for the year as
against 70 cents previously. The reversal
stemmed from a combination of factors:
a sharp fall in material treated by the
dredge (itself largely a result of harder
ground encountered), which, together
with a drop in grade, meant a cut in
metal concentrate (71 percent) from
928.7 to 516.5 tons; a lower average
price of tin realised capped it off. So
the shares look very friendless around
150-160—their lowest for several years.
Last year they hit 452 at one time.
Tableland has been up for a lot of
additional expense this year for one
thing and another, such as replacing
the dredge ladder, removing thicker
overburden, overhauling the dredge
pontoon and tin-saving equipment. Its
major problem, however, looks to be
water, and it has been up for about
$250,000 for a pipeline from the Hobart
River to the field following the loss of
its main supply source, the dams on the
Return River which were destroyed by
floods.
IT WAS QUITE something for in-
vestor “in and outers” in Oil Search
Ltd.’s 50 cent shares, and especially for
holders of those issued at a discount of
80 percent in the one-for-two issue last
year, to see them top par for a while
after the details of the company’s new
arrangement with British Petroleum to
come to the rescue of its operations in
Papua were announced last week. Those
who got in at the lowest price, 11
cents, earlier this year, and even those
who bought them when given a favor-
able reference by this column (Bulletin,
Sept. 2) when they were 28, could feel
justified in calling it a day, as many
indeed seem to have—temporarily, at
any rate, because a lot of selling has
since taken them back to 43.
The upshot of the new arrangement
is that what looks to be a new search
program is to be set on foot (costing
$6.8 million in the first instance), all
to be paid by BP on the tenements of
the two operating companies in the Oil
Search group, Australasian Petroleum
and Island Exploration. Under the


“well I’ll be a green horned toad!”
* 1
“You mean to say you’ve finished all those invoices
already?”
"Yes sir, in one-third the usual time.”
“That Soemtron automatic invoicer really is going
to save this Company money.”
"Not only that, it’s going to eliminate accounting
bottlenecks and make our procedures so simple and
accurate. With this Soemtron our accounts are
typed, extended, discounted, taxed, totalled, etc.,
all on the one machine.”
“Imagine, our invoices always out on time.”
“Ahead of time, sir. And we can also get data
control tapes and cards as an automatic by-product.”
k>emlTim
AUTOMATIC ELECTRONIC
BILLING AND ANALYSIS MACHINE
“I never dreamt a Soemtron automatic invoicer
could help our Company so much.”
“That’s the trouble, you just don’t realise HOW
much until you’ve actually seen what this
Soemtron can do!”
SEE NOW WHAT SOEMTRON
CAN DO FOR YOUR COMPANY
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING TO HAVE SOEMTRON
DEMONSTRATED. SEE HOW IT CAN BE PRO-
GRAMMED TO YOUR INDIVIDUAL REQUIREMENTS.
408-418 Latrobe Street, Melbourne
660 George Street, Sydney
38-40 Hurtle Square, Adelaide
465-469 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
870 Hay Street, Perth
180 Murray Street, Hobart
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
To: BUSINESS EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.
Soemtron Division
in your State Capital
(In Sydney C/o Ascota Business Machines Pty. Ltd.)
Please phone to make arrangements for an
office demonstration of your Soemtron 381.
NAME
COMPANY
ADDRESS
PHONE No
BUSINESS EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD. IS A DIVISION OF LITTON INDUSTRIES.
M185 / R
arrangement, BP will lift its stake in
these companies to nearly 50 percent
(with Oil Search itself holding slightly
more than that and Mobil, which shared
a majority interest with BP in these
companies up to the split in 1961 when
Oil Search Ltd. got 71 percent, still
retaining a small share).
Meanwhile Esso, which is currently
doing research work on certain other
tenements held by Australasian Petrol-
eum in Papua, is now to earn 75 percent
interest in them when the work is com-
pleted, and not 50 percent as at first
arranged. Oil Search Ltd. will now get
25 instead of 50 percent, so this dilutes
a bit the savor of this particular deal
from Oil Search’s viewpoint. It is still
a good bargain and will cost the com-
pany nothing in outlay on the work:
it is a nice thought to know that Esso
will have the funds to exploit any dis-
covery, if there is one.
HAMERSLEY IRON PTY. LTD. are
soon to announce their intention to
investigate direct reduction of their
Mt. Tom Price iron ore. Direct re-
duction is a term which will quickly
become known in mining and invest-
ment circles. That it is not widely
known so far is easily explained: no
commercial direct reduction plant is
yet operating anywhere in the world.
So Hamersley’s pioneering will be of
great significance.
Hamersley are at an advanced ne-
gotiating stage with the Lurgi organi-
ation, of Germany, who are among the
biggest engineers in Europe. Lurgi (an
abbreviation of the metallurgists Metal-
lurgische Gesellschaft AG, established
in 1897) pioneered direct reduction in
the mid-1930s to improve the low-grade
ores in the Salzgitter district. Very low-
grade hematite was converted to mag-
netite, separated magnetically, then sin-
tered and fed to blast furnaces.
In the conventional steel-making
process, lump ore, pellets, or sintered
fines are fed, with good-quality coking
coal, into a shaft furnace, there" to
be reduced at 1500 deg C in a molten
state. In direct reduction, lump ore or
green-balled fines go into a rotary kiln
with raw coal and the coal can be of
extremely low grade. The coal is fan-
ned in and its volatiles burn in the
kiln’s atmosphere, keeping the tem-
perature up while the fixed-carbon resi-
dues fall to the floor to become the
reducing agent, burning out the oxygen
from the iron oxides. The end-product
comes out in a solid state and can be
linked directly to steel-making facili-
ties (although when these come they
are unlikely to be in the Pilbara).
The process is coded SL/RN, after
the Steel Co. of Canada, Lurgi, Repub-
lic Steel of Cleveland, and National
Lead of New Jersey, who jointly
developed it. While there is, as yet,
no commercial plant operating, three
pilot plants are built and five com-
mercial plants under construction.
The first of the five commercial
plants is scheduled to be finished next
year for the Steel Co. of New Zealand;
others are in Highveldt for Anglo-
American, Peru for Cerro Corporation,
Korea for Inchon Iron and Steel, and
another in Canada. The cost of the
plant, with ancilliaries at remote
Dampier, would be about $7O million.
Such a direct reduction project would
upgrade ore from 65-68 percent to
88-97 percent.
Already the process is being intro-
duced in two different capacities in
the West. At Capel, on the south-west
coast, Western Titanium NL is
scheduled to have a small plant fin-
ished by December-January. The pro-
cess there will attack the iron oxide
impurities, roasting them out of the
titanium dioxide from which ilmenite
is extracted.
The BHP subsidiary, Australian Iron
and Steel, early this year gave Lurgi
the green light for a $lO million turn-
key sinter plant for the Kwinana com-
plex, where it will treat Koolyanobbing
iron ore. Since 1965, Lurgi have built
two sinter plants at Port Kembla and
one at Newcastle. This raises specula-
tion on whether or not the Mt. New-
man consortium (managed by BHP)
might adopt the process if it proves
feasible in the area for Hamersley.


This
'Week’s
Year
Aluminium, ton
Copper w.b., ton
week
change
ago
£ 196
£ 196
£4061/2
+ £ 141/4
£ 4691/2
Gold, oz.
252/11V2
-Vzd.
251/113/4
Lead, ton
£ 01 111-10
£ 823/4
Silver, oz.
160d.
+7'd.
1117/nd.
Tm, ton
Wolfram, unit
£'11963/,
+ £ 7i/ 4
£ 1212
346/3
—
308/9
Zinc, ton
Wheat, Aust. ton
£ 95 906
+ £9-16
£ l'l'l 3-16
£ 25 3 /4
—
£28
Linseed oil, ton
£ 100
+ £1/2
£ 861/2
Cocoa, 50 ki'los
221/6
+3/
173/9
Cotto‘n, Am. lb.
22.4d.
21 95d.
Rubber, 4'b.
193/ 4 d.
+H/ 4 d.
19d.
Sugar, ton
Wool, tops
£'191/2
+ £ 1'
£ 141/2
64s, ib.
107d.
—
115d.
m
Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM
8 AND 10 YEARS
k
PER ANNUM
7 YEARS
0
0
PER ANNUM 5 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on
the printed form referred to in and attached to the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms of application should be obtained
from:
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey, (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
SDN. 2
Commodities
Lead and zinc still
in surplus
IN AUSTRALIA the Barrier miners
are keeping the lead-zinc pricing posi-
tion well to the forefront. “Although
sales of lead and silver were greater
than in the previous year, they were not
sufficient to offset the effect of the lower
prices realised for lead and zinc,” North
Broken Hill reported only last week. To
put the zinc position clearly, it must
also be added that Norths sold rather
less zinc; indeed, both zinc production
and disposals have been dropping sig-
nificantly since 1964.
The situation is given point by the
latest predictions from the 28-member
International Lead and Zinc Study
Group, which met recently in Geneva.
The group expects each of the two
metals to show a statistical surplus over
the next year. Interestingly enough, pro-
duction and consumption have been
reasonably balanced in the current
year.
For 1967, overall world consumption
of lead should hold roughly at 1966’s
2.8 m. metric tons, actual mine produc-
tion could move some 68,000 tons
higher to 2.2 m. tons and metal output
go up by 30,000 tons to the required
2.8 m. tons.
Zinc mine output will increase to
around 3.8 m. tons, while metal pro-
duced could be 3.3 m. tons. Demand
may fall to 3.4 m. tons or one percent
lower than for 1966.
Lead is predicted to begin to dis-
play considerable growth in mine and
metal output in 1968, yet demand will
probably not catch up with this growth.
So far as zinc is concerned, 1968 mine
outputs will expand at about current
rates; metal output and demand are
reckoned to be set for very large
advances.
VERY LITTLE BLOOM is taken off
the longer-term prospects for nickel by
a somewhat cautious forecast emanating
from International Nickel. Mr. J. O.
Hitchcock, a director, has suggested
that the next couple of years may see
a demand growth-rate of about four or
five percent in the West. Such an esti-
mate contrasts with the nearly 10 per-
cent figure put forward by a Falcon-
bridge representative only a few weeks
ago.
The lower estimate might well be a
portent of Inco’s (and other producers’)
desire not to let the market get out of
control. Increasing mine capacity
(partly, and dramatically, represented
in Australia) looks able to handle the
current and short-term increases in
demand. Those shortages that have
pushed prices so high lately are right on
the way to being overcome. Indeed,
they have been as much due to strikes
in the Canadian mines as to any marked
inability of the industry to plan for
the upsurge in demand which has dis-
tinguished the last year or so.
It is certainly not to the industry’s
interest to allow prices to lift rapidly
and continuously demand would
clearly slacken and substitutes gain
ground. Nickel producers can antici-
pate good, and higher, price levels by
more realistic anticipation of growth in
their markets. Australia’s stake in a
commonsense view is obvious.
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES


Share
Par
1 Div.
Year I
Week
Fri.
| 1967
1 Turnover
1 Yield °/„
Valuel cents
aso |
ago
close
High 1 Low
Syd.
| Melb.
Div.
Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
2 001
1.48
1.54 2 00
1 20
32,800
12.7001
Ampol Exp.
.50
1.02
1.70
>1.75
'1 80
1 04
22,600
30,800
Assoc. Min.
.50
20
■ 5.50
6.70
7 10
7 O0>
5 10
4,700
5,150'
A. 0. G
.50
.22
1.82
2 25
2 25
1.42
43,100>
, 16,300
B. H. South
.50
8
2 58,
4 25
4 50
4 '6'8
2 57
57,000
64,900
1.8
2.4
C.'R.A.
.50
8
5.26,
9 40
9.441 9.56
4.94
13,175
24,060
0 ’8
2.0
C’wealth Min.
1 00
10
2.38|
3 12
3.40
3.30
2.30
3,200
1,200
2.9
3.3
Cons. Gold
1.00
; io
5 00
5 70
6 28
3.80
34,300
45,050
1.8
3.3
Hamersley
.50
8.80
8 00
9.30
4.06
5 /ISO
14,960
K. 1. Scheel
.50
10
2.52;
4 18
4 60
4 60
2.50
10,900
38,400
Mount Isa
.50
5
4.27
4 48
4.4;
4 54
. 3 50
69,250
65,000*
1.1
2 9
Mt. Lyell
.25
6.2
1 35 i
1.45
1 53
1 76
T 28
13,800
33',SOO>
4 O
10 9
Mt. Morgan
1.00
22 5
2.75'
4 42
5 00'
5 02
2 6-5
37,300
39,350
4 5
14 5
New B.H.
.62
38
4 281
8.10
8 40
8 90
4 04
7,500
8,830>
4 4
•6.0
North B.H.
1 00
25
3.65j
6.20
7 04
7 00
3.21
>12,000
30,700
3.5
5 0
Oil Search
.50
.14
.45
46
.54
.12
189,500
189,700
Renison
.50
7 50|
5 60
5 80
8 30
5 70
5,200
12,800
Santos
25
1.90!
2 00
2 00
> 2 20
1.55
4,100
7,300
West Min.
.50
10
6.10
25 60! 25 foOi; 2'3 00
6.301
7.000
15.000
0.4*
0.5
Woodside
.50
.94!
.93
1 30
1 30
.58
81,'800| 147,300*
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4
3
94
88
89
1
03
88
16,000
17,100
4.9
8
2
Adams, W.
1
00
12
5
2
05
2
75
2
28
2
40'
1
88
5,800
1,000
5 5
7
0
Adel.. Steam
50
4
68
77
71
90
55
10,400
9,100
5 *6
6
8
Advertiser
50
5
1
62
1
43
1
44
1
74
1
43
3 5
6
2
Allen, S.
1
00
10
2
04
1
90
1
90
1
98 i 1
721 700
5.3
8
3
Allied Mills
.59
6
a
71
1
57
1
55
1
83
■ 1
50
6,600
9,500
3.8
8
9
Amal. Chem.
.50
72
43
43
80
41
7,000
2,700
6
?
Ampol
50
5
64
74
78
80
57
156,155
143,800
6 4
9
3
Ansett
50
5
/0
70
■6*6*
76
55
38,650
31,000
7.6
7
8
A.P.C.M.
50
5
l
29
1
13
1
14
1
35
,88'
2,000
4,000
4 4
6
5
Assoc. Pulp
1
00
8
a
33
1
43
1
44
1'
48
1
28
5,400
23,000
6.2
8
3
A..N.Z. Bank
12
50
d/
52
5
93
7
50
7
501 7
50| 5
581
10O
4.0
5
2
A.K. Cement
50
'5
1
11
1
04
1
07
1
211
85
31,400
38,700
4.7
8
1
Aust. Chem.
1
00
10
1
63
1
85
1
651 1
93
1
551 3,350:
600
6 1'
6
5
A.C.'I.
1
OO
10
2
71
3
34
3
36
3
70
.7;
81
37,850
25,400
3 O'
6
0
Aust. Fert.
2
00
lb
3
94
3
43
3
40
4
60
3
00
600
4.7
9
7
A.G.C.
50
/
5
1
30
1
91
1
94
1
94
1
46
30,400
4,800
3.9
6
8
A. Newsprint
2
00
20
3
60
4
10
4
10
4
20
3
70'i
100
4 9
5
3
A.P.M.
1
00
9
d
59
1
40
1
40
1
75
1
39
67,350
104,700
6.4
8
3
A.U.'C.
1
00
10
4
00
4
17
4
201 4
17
3
051
100'
2.4
8
6
Bank Adel.
1
00
10
2
15
2
45
2
47
2
50
2
0?
2,200
1,700
4.1
5
3
Bank N.S.W.
,2
00
20
5
06
6
32
6
62
6
64
5
00'
16,350
19,600'
3.0*
5
4
Bellambi
50
5
1
60
1
17.
1'
70
2
05
1
15
2,800
2.8
5
8
Berlei
1
00
15
2
55
2
85
2
901 2
90
2
28
1,700
5.2
11
5
B.M.I.
50
/
5
1
30
1
62
1
67
1
77
43
23,600
3,600
4 5
6
7
Bonds Ind.
'50
/
1
12
1
33
1
351 1
42
1
10
14,200
5.2
13
3
Boral
50
ao
1
/a
2
18
2
13
2
35
1
75
28,250
22,100
4 7
7
0
Borg Warner
1
00
1
38
1
78
1
17'
1
85
1
38
2,900
3.5
Brad. Cotton
50
5
60
62
67
73
56
19,200
22,200
7.5
12
8
Brambles
50
7
5
1
46
1
57
1
37
1
70
1
17i
13,600
6,000
5 5
8
7
Brit. Tobacco
1
00
1?
2
23
2
45
2
52:
2
66
2
24
37,150
7,100
4 8
7
7
B.H.P.
•2
00
18
6
5
96
14
90
15
30
13
33'
6
20 195,176
212,500
1.2
7
1
Bruck Mills
.50
6
25
76
1
05
1
04
1
08
76
3,000
14,200
6 0'
17
7
Burns Philp
C.U.B. "Z”
1
00
10
3
8.5
3
92
3
78
4
20
2
64
7,000
3,500
2.7
7.
9
1
00
13
3
35
3
40
3
30'
3
55:
2
90
800
5,600
3.9
6
7
Carp., W. R.
50
7
5
2
41
a
83
2
02'
2
38
1
83
46,100
34,600
4 0
7
0
Carrier Air
'50.
3
58
96
92
1
02
38
3,400
15,500
5.4
10
7
C’maine Per.
a
00
18
6
10
6
35
6
70
6
80
5
66
1,650
700
2 7
5
7
Chamberlain
50
6
25
1
30
1
80
1
51
2
02
1
42
42,400
4 1.
11
1
Clyde Ind.
50
7
5
93
68
69
89
60
21,600
7,600
10.9
13
3
Coal Allied
l
00
70
1
58
1
90
2
10
2
.10
1
34
29,300
36,100
3 3
9
1
Coles, G. J.
50
5
5
1
16
1
14
1
12
1
26
1
11
56,750
157,600
4.9
7
3
C.S.R.
i
00
V?
5
7
97
4
34
3
48
4
60
2
78
55,550
52,150
2.7
4
8
C.A.G.A.
a
00
10
1
44
1
49
1
451 1
54
1
33
8,400
4,900
6 9
10
4
C.B.A.
a
00
10
1
87
2
34
2
57
2
62
1
92
7,350
10,000
3 9
5
8
C.B.C.
l
00
10
2
08
2
70
2
32
2
76 2
09
14,5671 1
4.0 8
1
Com. Union
50
4
5
1
30
■ 1
66 1
73
1
75
1
25:
4,300
2,500
2 9
5
4
C.I.G.
l
00
11
2
4/
2
78
2
II
2
80
2
03
4,500
10,700
4.0
5
5
Concrete Ind.
.50
12
39
43
42
51
14
39,400
14,800
6.0
13
5
Consol. Press
50
10
'2
60
3
30
3
30
3
60
2
45
1 4,400
3.0*
5
7
Containers
l
00
9
2
8 7
1
88
1
88
1
98
1
50
14,300
21,100
4.8
7
7
Gourtaulds
i
.00
1 4
44
62
38
80
42
1,200
3,400
10 4
8
4
Crane, G. E.
l
.00
14
4
38
3
63
3
73
6
00
1
60
900
1
3.7
7
.2
2
00
20
4
60
4
60
4
60
5
46
3
20
3.5
11
9
50
5
77
1
06
1
06
1
06
76
43,400
26,200
4.7
11
0
1
00
10
a
17
1
30
1
30
1
70
1
29
9,600
27,100
7.7
9
8
?
50
25
5
4
60
3
151 5
04
5
75
4
70
1,050
5.9
8.
6
D.F.C.
2
00
24
6
30
3
60
5
30
6
30
5
30
550
4 5
10
3
1
00
10
1
72
1
41
1
43
1
92
1
40
18,000
17,000
6.9
10
0
1
00
8
5
1
24
1
74
1
6 7
1
90
1
22
38,250
11,800
4.7
1
4
E.M.I.
50
9
2
0?
2
8,3
3
00
3
00
2
20
1,700
2,200
3.2
7
9
E.Z. .Ind.
1
00
. 14
'?
46
3
00
2
97
3
42
12.
07
15,250
21,250
4.7
6
3
1
00
11
2
48
2
33
2
22
2
71
2
10
7,000
11,800
4 9
11,
3
Elec. “B"
1
00
7
52
92
92
93
50
9,100
9,800
7.6
12
3
'50
4
42
73
69
76
42
13,500
11,300
7 2
9
1
E.S.A.
12
50
14
5
12
6
30
6
30
6
30! 4
30
4 0
8
4
50
6
a
30
61
3 7
1
25
37
3,100
1,700
Id 0
16
0
50
8
2
34
2
30
2
261 2
63
2
03
18,000
2,300
3 a
5
5
1
00
6
d
48
1
20
1
181 1
36
1
18
8,200
5 2
6
/
50
5
53
37
59
61
40
30,200
20,200
8.5
11
1
.50
7
1
21
1
801 2
00
2
10
1
33
3 7| 6
2
1
00
17
3
33
5
50
5
40
3
55
3
60
850
3 6
5
9
50
4
57
68
6/
701
511 2,0001 12,700
6 0
1
1
2
00
12
1
24
1
19
1
15
1
48! 1
10
3,600
3,700
10 4! 16
R
50
4
5
68
63
63
801
571 10,300
9,000
6 9
13
0
50
10
2
10
1
90
1
93
2
301 a
781 800
3,000
5 2
1
3
'50
b
6
1
471 2
12
2
12 2
201 1
541 17,350
1,200
3 1
6
1
1
.00
10
4
88
4
90 4
931 5
341 4
601 2,80C
800
2 C
5
5
.50
21
20
.211
25
11
33,650
28,500
2 7
2
8
.50
15
4
77
5
36
5
.301 5
46
4
09
2,700
19.300 1
2 ,e
3
/
.50
36
49
46
.55
!'
.34
37,700
13,500
ai
6
1
00
14
2
58
3
38
3
42
3
.681 2
48
4,900
15,900
3.7|' 7
8
.50
5
87
83
•831 d
024
.at
l',65C
12,200
6.C
8
.4
.50
b
84
1
01
1
.01
1 1
12
.83
7,200
14,200
5.'
10
7
i.C.il.A.N.Z.
1
.00
15
2
54
2
.08
1
.95
1 2
21
1
72
15,200
27,700
3 £
5
.1
.50
b
2
86
.71
.701 1
It
.63
8,900
10,400
' 7.1
■ 7
5
.50
Ifv
7
1
2 7
1
.29
a
20*1 1
51
1
20
64,250
17,900
5 6
9
7
1
00
112
3
.73
2
80
2
.751 4
.20
2
66
: .2,800
1,100
4.4
10
.1
.50
73
.17
.18'!
.24
.15
1,40C
17,300
.50
7
5
1
.90
1
.80
1
651 1
. 9t
1
60
4,000
2,300
4.5
ai
2
.50
12
5
1
43
1
.06
1
07
a
.50
1
.05
1,300
2,000
5. £
9
.4
.50
5
.5
.83
1
.18
1
It
! a
.25
•
.80
16,400
4.7
8
.6
.50
8
2
64
2
33
2
531 2
76
2
45
5,500
8,700
5.2
6
.7
Lysaght, J.
1
.00
12
?
36
3
81
3
601 5
.93
2
521 6,80(
2,700
3.3
5
.8
2
00
31
6
a
OO
13
it
13
10113
401 i
12| 1,475
5,175
2.4 2
.4
Marrickville
.50
7
5
l
.16
1
17
1 1
161 1
. 24!
90' 10.500
1,500
'|16 5| 8
9
Share
Par | Div.
Value| cents
■1 Year
I ago
[Week
1 ago
| Fri. | 1967
1 close 1 High |Low
| Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
1 Yield %
[ Div.|Earn.
Mauri Bros.
.50
5.2
2.03
2.30| 2.26
2 32
2 00
16,500
14,900
2.3
4.6
M. Nick less
1.00
12.5
2.52
2.741 2 76
2.90
2 50
1,400
2,900
4 9
*6.1
McMwraith, J.
.50
7.5
1.201
1 031 1-12
1.25
1 00
3,400
9,100
6.7
e.9
McPherson
2.00
16.6
3 46
2 781 2.7C
3.45
2.00
3,300
9,300
6.1
10.1
M illaquin
1.00
14
2.64
2.55
2 60| 2 84
2 45
2,800
5,000
5.4
6.4
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.63
1.35
1 32
1.68
1.30
12,000
5,900
7.6
16.2
Minster
1.00
20
2 63
1.33
1 3C
3 30
1 28
4,900
11,000
15.4
17.'5
Morris, Philip
11.00
25
7.00
5.28
3 85
3.85
2 36
. 5,500
13,400
3.2
13.4
Myer
.50
8.75
2.88
4 20
4.16
4 28
3 02
15,194
94,800
2 4
5.5
Myttons
.50
6
1.30
1 34
1.2C
1 1 45
!1.16
300
9,700
5 0
9.2
N.Z. Forest
1.25
9.5
2.60
2 63
2 62
2 75
2 42
2,200
1,300
3.6
8.6
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
1.97
2.62
2 63
2.70
1.93
27,350
15,200
3.8
5.1
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2 25
2 20
2 22
2 93
2. 15
6.000
10,600
4.5
8.9
Nat. 'Dairy
2 25
26.7
32.00
40 30
40 30140 30131.501
3.3
5.6
News
.50
•6
1.36
2 40
2 40
2 55
1 56
7,600
12,100
2.5
8.1
N.Z. 1 ns.
1.25
11.5
12.95
2 60
2 60
2.95
■2.70
5 8
8.7
Nylex
.50
5
.66
.99
1.00
1,01i
.70
11,500
39,300
5.0
6.4
0 lympjc
.50
5
.72
.80
73
92
66
6,700
31,500
6 4
11.4
Optical
1.00
16
4.30
4.90
5 35
5 50
4.45
3,550
3.5
6.2
Overseas
.50
6
1.06
1.60
1 60
1.70
1.27
500
7,700
4.1
8.1
P.G.H.
.50
7
1.14
.88
.88
1.24
.82
15,350
7.4
11.6
Penfolds
.50
6.25
1.78
3 20
3.15
3.30
1 77
5,700
■|
2 2
3 3
Peko
.50
9
2.13
4.94
5 82
5.70*
2 00ill9.350
71,700
1 51 3.9-
Perp. Trustees
2.00
118
3.60
3.10
3 10
3.55
3.00
200
5.8
6 8
Petersviile
.20
2 5
.52
.40
.41
.55
.37
40,050
157,600
6 1
7.1
Peters, W. A.
.50
6.25
1 70
1.19
1.16
1.73
1.05
5 4
8.0
Pioneer Cone.
.50
7.5
1.24
1.28
1 29
1 38
1. Ill]
12,050
36,200
5 8
10.7
Prestige
.50
6 ,i25
.79
.96
.95
.961 .75
3,100
21,600
6.61 12.8-
Provincial Tr.
.'50
5.5
1.00
.93
.97
1.08
•.92
8,850
5.7
9.0
Pye
.50
5
1.10
1.17
1 14
1.35
.66
2,600
100
4 4'
11.0
Q'land Cement
2.00
30
7.70
6 40
6.40
6.45
6.00
3 4
6 8
Q’land Ins.
1.00
12.5
4.20
4.75
4 85
4.85
3.98
3,400
2 6
6.4
Q’land Press
1.00
16
4.95
4 80
4.80
. 5.05
4.30
1,000
3.1
6.2
Reed
.50
7
1.55
2.10
2 05
2.15
1.45
1,050
i 3.4
8.5
Repco
.50
7.5
2.02
2.40
2 43
2 45
1.97
10,800
62,600
■ 3.1
4 9
■Rocla
.50
7.5
1.76
1.87
1 88
1.98
1.62
2,600
7,100
4.0
5.9
Rothmans
1.00
14
2 66
1 68
1.72
2.67
1.63
7,650
■ 8,800
8.2
11.4
S. A. Rubber
.50
5.62
.97
92
.90
1.08
.89
6,300
3,400
6 2
9.5
Schweppes
.60
5.5
1.75
1.50
1 47
1.71
1.40
1,500
1,700
3.7
6 2
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2.53
3.00
3 00| 3 02
2.95
2.5
8.0
S'mpson Pope
.50
.21
.28
.30
.38
.24
2,600
9,500
3.3
10.2
Sleigh, H. 'C.
.50
5
.62
.66
64
.69
.55
45,350
59,500
7.8
10.0
Smith, How.
1 00
10
2 60
3.85
3 70
4 10
2 60
6,'600
7,100
2.7
5.3
Softwood
1 00
10
2 30
2 10
2 05
2.48
1.78
500
900 1
4.9
16.2
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.25
14.16
3 80
3.90
4 00
4 03' 3 26
3,468
3.8
7.2
Steamships
.50
5
1.08
.62
.61
■1 08
.55
13,650
13,800
8 2
15 2
Stedman, J.
.50
7 5
1.60
1 62
1 64 2 00 1 20
24,400
4 6
7.3
Swan Brew.
.50
6.5
! 2.43
2.95
3 16! 3 25
2.22
30,600
39,800
2 a
3.6
T arax
.50
5
1.101
.79
.801 1 17
.//
600
5,900
6.3
6.9
T aubmans
.50
8
.901
il 15
1.14
1.21
.97
700
300
7.0
8.1
TV Corp.
1.00
20
3.10
4.20
4 10
4 45
3 18
1,500
300
4.9
5 6
.50
5
i. io:
2 30
3 05
3.20
1.02
99,800
1 6
7.1
.50
4 5
1 04
1 17
1' 19
1 20
.95
43,500
3.8
6.1
1.00
16 25
5.18
5 50
5.60
5 68
4.76
9,350
2,450
2.9
4.1
U.E.B. Ind.
.63
5.77
1.20
.90
.90
1 28
.19
2,200
1 ,'600'
7 6
11.9
1.00
14
3.98
5.80
5 60
6 20
4.49
1,150
2.5
5.6
Walker F. J.
1.00
12.5
11.50
1.31
1 30
1 73
1 25
5,500
9.6
5.7
.50
6 25
.93
.81
84
1 05
.80
78,250-
28,500
7.4
10 3
. 50 '
7.5
1.25
1.10
1 10
1 38| 1.10|
6 8
12.5
Woolworths
.50
6
1.25
1.24
1.18
1.33
1.13'| 71,959
48,100
5.1'
7.0
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
'last
All ordinaries . . 1
50 leaders . . .
430.37
434.45
147.46
162.48
147.47
164.67
208.50
211.28
138.24
140.71
560.27
576.12
80.97
81.47
236.59
227.25
125.76
119.81
493.54
475.91
100.32
95.01
Retail, merchants
329.42
320.47
99.89
55.51
98.71
55.29
202.90
205.10
115.76
116.95
198.00 '
199.20
82.94
83.08
Chemicals
353.29
350.17
86.54
85.50
476.91
469.08
71.76
72.56
Paper . . ...
110.34
109.06
722.33
739.37
101.90
101.56
Automotive . . .
Fuel Power . . .
812.24
187.03
825.56
191.87
1087.02
85.57
65.20
5teel, engineering
1051.57
242.73
252.72
Non-ferrous . . . ‘
1928.32
1955.94
407.30
397.59
OIL
SUGAR
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
last
Brisbane ....
199.29
213.40
95.71
91.86
Melbourne . . . 1
1'64 83
179.46
THE WEEK'S
TURNOVERS
i
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
■j INDUSTRIAL!
MINING
INDUSTRIAL!
MINING
I Sales 1
Value I
Sales
| Value
1 Sales
| Value |
Sales |
Value
1 Vol.
1 $ 1
Vol.
$
1 Vol.
1 S 1
Vol. |
$
•| 1000
1 1000 1
1000
1 1000
1 1000
1 1000 |
1000
| 1000
1 4683
i 9293 j
5372 |
5356
| 4919
1 11270!
4582 1
6393
Week to Friday
| 4495 i
1 8964 '1
7219 1
7954
1 5420
| 9294 t
5705 ]
10236
OVERSEAS INDEXES
London
New
York | Tokyo
"Financial Times”
Dow
Jones | D. Jones
1 Inds.
Secs.
Gold
| Inds.
| Rails | Avge.
Jan. 3. 1967
313.4
78.31
51.9
786.41
205.1611444.35
1967 •Mqh '
397.6
81.85
55.5 1
934.35
272 9911506 27
1967 low
310.3
78.27
47.3
791.14
205.3111410.31
378.7
■ 78.76
50.5
930 48
262 3711350 27
Week ago
389 9
78 33
51.5
918.17
251.1511362 66
Latest
387.1 '
77.70
52.5
896 73
247 5OI0.378 70
AND STATISTICS
It might well have looked like nickel, nickel all the way (and
at almost any cost). Yet some of the more speculative Western
Australian miners were being cut down toward the close. Even
Great Boulder went into retreat as many of the smaller fry
decided to take their profits, which were evidenced by a $5.80
rise on the week to $9.60 after a peak $14.50. Among other
miners, Western Mining finished unchanged at $25.60, while
Hamersley dropped back 80 cents to $B.OO. BHP sprinted up 60
cents to $15.50. Thiess added 25 cents and the Bank of N.S.W.
30 cents.
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SY D N EY %
average dividend .. 6.33
MELBOURNE
dividend 4 82
earnings 7.52
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend 4 95
earnings 6.06
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3.68
earnings 7.69
CWEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short .. •• 4.52 4.53
Medium . . . 4.91 491
Long . . . . 5.25 5.25


THE LAND
Wool soon to enter the
firing line again
WOOL SHOULD SOON be hitting
the high and frequent headlines again.
For on Tuesday next, October 31, the
Wool Board is to present its long-
meditated report on marketing to
the Australian Wool Industry Council.
Whatever the findings and recommenda-
tions, in the present disturbed state of
the industry it is hard to see the report
being received by growers with any
mood of calm and moderation.
As if to mitigate some of the heat
and dissension which surrounded the
reserve-price debate (and perhaps cast-
ing a shadow before?), the president of
the Graziers’ Association of N.S.W. saw
fit to issue a calming statement last
week. Mr. Wright suggested that
growers start doing a bit of hard
thinking in case the Board advises the
establishment of some form of statutory-
authority.
He put the main point with careful
clarity by saying: “It is true that a
statutory authority may be one repre-
senting woolgrowers exclusively. It
nevertheless carries with it an element
of coercion which could lead to the
denial to buyers of free access to all
wool offering within the season, to
interference with the free flow of wool
on the market, to the building up of
burdensome surpluses, and to the diver-
sion of demand to substitutes.”
After that there did not appear much
need for Mr. Wright to draw attention
to the aweful New Zealand experience,
yet he could scarcely avoid rubbing in
the moral: “The Australian Wool
Board has been remarkably silent about
the position which has, under the influ-
ence of a wool marketing authority,
developed in New Zealand. New
Zealand is an example, for those who
are prepared to assess it, of the conse-
quences of supporting prices at an arti-
ficial level.”
The Graziers have nailed their atti-
tude firmly: “Nothing could demon-
strate more clearly that the customer
could not be forced to pay more than
he now freely pays at auction.” They
are, of course, wed to the marketing
scheme put forward by the National
Council of Wool Selling Brokers and
Involving broad co-operation by the
industry’s various sections —not wool-
growers acting on their own.
Growers may well be feeling rather
more fractious than usual when they
consider the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics’ recent forecast of possi-
bilities in the 1967-68 year. Exports of
wool should go up from 1651.4 million
lb. to 1703 million lb.; they are expected
to yield $7.6 million less at $864.4
million, as a result of lower auction
prices. To cap it all, the much-bruited
Kennedy Round has not impelled the
United States to do anything about its
duty on Australian wool.
The Minister for Trade, Mr. J. Mc-
Ewen, sounded more incensed than
usual when he told the Federal Parlia-
ment that, even before the Kennedy
Round bargaining, “we had been given
to understand, at a very high level, that
the U.S. was prepared to negotiate a
substantial cut in this duty.” The bait
of Australian concessions on tobacco
(and apparently on some other items,
too) has obviously proved insufficient
to budge the Americans. Mr. McEwen
is but facing the dismal facts when he
declares that the battle for better
markets for agricultural commodities
must go on without respite.
This old struggle of wool to win
reasonable access to the American
market is now thwarted by a plain and
widely supported mood of domestic pro-
tectionism, which could throw all the
pious declarations of the Kennedy
Round in jeopardy. It is no immediate
consolation for woolgrowers to realise
that meat, dairy products, and a collec-
tion of industrial products are affected
by the rising American restrictionism.
Mr. McEwen will find it a tough job
to convince the industrial countries —■
the chief beneficiaries from the more
abortive aspects of the Kennedy Round
that a “practical solution must be
found.” It is proving extremely diffi-
cult to liberalise the conditions of world
trade, especially so far as the producers
of primary products and commodities
are concerned.
At the very least, wool, its promotion,
its marketing, its plethora of past and
coming reports, enters the firing-line
once more —and not under particularly
auspicious circumstances.
Agrisearch
Melioidosis breaks its bounds
MELIOIDOSIS, A NASTY disease of
men and animals, seems to be on the
march. Cases have been cropping up
over the past several months in places
far beyond the Townsville, Charters
Towers, Ingham region to which the
disease has normally been confined. -
Troops returning from South Vietnam
could be infected. No one knows quite
how it spreads, and several other aspects
of treatment and control are not well
understood. Veterinary and medical
practitioners and scientists may need to
become more conscious of the presence
of this disease in Australia and devote
more resources to its study.
The bacterium concerned, now gener-
ally called Pseudomonas pseudomallei,
was first isolated from the bodies of
morphine addicts and vagabonds found
in the streets of Rangoon by a British
medical officer in 1911. The name,
melioidosis, which means “a resem-
blance to a distemper of asses,” was
adopted in 1921 when it was realised
that the disease was very similar to
glanders. Since then it has been found
infecting a large variety of both wild
and domesticated animals. In 1950,
G. S. Cottew announced that the
organism was present in Australia. He
had isolated it from a flock of 4000
sheep on a property in northern Queens-
land after 80 had died. Soon after-
wards many pigs and goats and lesser
numbers of cattle and horses in the
Townsville area were found to be
infected. In fact, Mr. L. Laws, of the
Animal Research Institute, Yeerong-
pilly, Brisbane, considers that the
disease is endemic in the country
around Townsville.
Melioidosis is commonest in Vietnam,
Cambodia, Thailand, Laos, Burma, and
Malaysia, while India, the Philippines,
Indonesia, and northern Queensland are
recognised as places of less frequent
occurrence. Recent reports of cases
among Torres Strait islanders, Papuans,
and from the Northern Territory and
around Brisbane suggest that the disease
has spread to other parts. Prevailing
scientific opinion has been that the
bacteria are confined within latitudes
20deg. north and south of the equator.
It is, therefore, very surprising and
rather disturbing to learn that melioi-
dosis has also been diagnosed lately in
the Perth area.
Two persons and sheep on two
adjoining properties in that district
have been affected. One of the patients
had been an abattoir worker in the
north-west of the State some months


neral
redits
$2,000,000 Debenture Stock
(Second Ranking)
m
6 TO 10 YEARS
Other rates and terms available
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed
with the Prospectus which may be obtained from:-
• lan Potter & Co., Underwriters • All recognized Stockbrokers
• All branches General Credits
• All branches of the Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
(general
Xjrcdits
I IMPTCn
277 William Street, Melbourne. Ph. 60 0241
283 Clarence Street, Sydney. Ph. 29 3041
2597/F
WANTED
to BUY*
COMPANIES WITH ACCUMULATED PROFITS
QUESTER,
Brisbane: 2 osoi s Melbourne si ihs s sydney-29 1451
before coming down to Perth, but the
other had always resided in the south.
The sheep on one of the farms likewise
had a tenuous connection with the
north. Two horses that had been used
to muster stock at a northern abattoir
had been brought down to the farm
near Perth three years before the out-
break. And there was also a dog on
this farm whose parents had come from
the north. Blood tests failed to establish
positively whether either of the horses
or the dog had been infected at any
time. Hence there is insufficient evi-
dence to declare that carrier animals
had brought the disease southward, but
the awkward question of the possible
need to restrict the movement of stock
lurks in the background.
One of the difficulties in assessing
how to deal with melioidosis is that its
incubation period is indefinite. Esti-
mates vary from a few days to a few
years, though it does seem that in
humans the period tends to be very
long. The Americans have had cases
among returned servicemen from Viet-
nam who have been back in the States
for more than four months before be-
coming ill. Up till last February they
had had 35 cases, with eight deaths.
One of these had a fairly well docu-
mented history which suggests that he
got the disease from excrement rather
than by eating contaminated food,
which has long been regarded as a
likely source of infection. He had
stepped on a punji stick —a Viet Cong
booby trap consisting of a sharp spike
smeared with human faeces. The
wound caused scarcely any trouble
immediately, but nearly six months later
he died of melioidosis despite vigorous
medical treatment at the Air Force Hos-
pital in Ohio.
Australian opinion is that the disease
is usually picked up from swampy land.
The Queensland Department of Health,
which studied the outbreak on the
Torres Strait islands, virtually excluded
the possibility that the people were in-
fected by food fouled by rats or directly
from their domesticated animals. The
department warns against wearing boots
that are not watertight in areas where
melioidosis is endemic. However, the
Western Australian farms are on well-
drained land. Mr. Laws has obtained
some evidence that when animals are
closely confined the disease can be trans-
mitted directly by the droppings of
infected individuals. Pigs and, perhaps,
goats may often become diseased by this
means, but the soil theory probably
accounts for most of the infections in
sheep, cattle, and horses. How people
get it, apart from stepping on punji
sticks, remains a mystery. It seems
highly unlikely that they pass it from
one to another and improbable that they
pick it up by direct contact with
animals. As northern development pro-
gresses we are likely to become better
acquainted with this disease, unfor-
tunately.


THE BULLETIN CLASSIFIED PAGE
Legal Notices
WILLIAM MOORE, formerly of Lawson in the State of
New South Wales, Homeopathic Practitioner, son of William
Moore and Mary Moore Oborn Laws), was 'born at Cong-
ham, England, on the 31st January, 1831 and died at
Lawson, New South Wales on the 18th May, 1911; and
an intestacy has arisen as to plant of his estate. FANNY
ELIZA MOORE (bom TAYLOR), formerly of Lawson in
the State of New South Wales, widow, and former wife
of William Moore, was born at Worcester, England, on the
15th November, 1842 or 1843 and! died at Lawson, New
South Wales on the sth October 1914; and an intestacy
has arisen as to part of her estate. PURSUANT to a
Decretal Order of the Supreme Court of New South Wales
in its Equitable Jurisdiction dated the sth day of June,
1959, and made in suit No. 608 of 1959, whereby it was
directed that an enquiry be held to ascertain who were
the persons entitled, according to the Statutes for the
Distribution of Intestate estates, to the states of the above-
named William Moore and Fanny Eliza Moore living at
the death of each respectively, and Whether any of such
persons are since dead, and if so, who are their legal
representatives. NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the said enquiry are
to send by post prepaid to The Trustees of the Estates of
William and Fanny Eliza Moore, C/o W. A. Gilder, Son
& Co., Solicitors, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, so as to reach them on or before the 29th day of
January, 1968, their full Christian and surnames, addresses
and descriptions and full particulars of their claims AND
NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of the said Decretal
Order unless the Court or a Judge or the Master in Equity
otherwise orders. Claimants are to attend personally or
by Solicitor or Counsel before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
on the 19th day of March, 1968, at 11 a.m., being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims and must
then be prepared to prove their claims by proper legal
evidence. A Claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with the particulars of his or her claim the
name and address of some person in New South Wales,
to whom notice to the claimant can be sent. Claimants
are advised to send their particulars of claim by two
mails at an interval of three or four days.
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-1966
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
To: VO'ITTO KOTIOJA whose latest known address was
67 Dallas Drive Broadmeadows in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that SAMPSA JUHANI PENTTILA has
presented a petition at the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia in a suit Number 2720 of 1965 in which he claims
against Eva Marjatta Penttila an order for dissolution of
marriage on the ground of her adultery with you and
also an order against you for costs. Unless you file an
answer or notice of address for service in the suit at the
office of the Master of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia at Adelaide within thirty-five days of publication of
this advertisement, orders may be made against you in
your absence. STEVENSON & PENNA, Queen’s Chambers,
19 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE. Solicitors for the petitioner.
“T-LBOR SZABO and IDA CREE who resided at 32 Turvy
Street, Kings Cross, please contact DUDLEY A. TREGENT,
Solicitor, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne 3000, Victoria.”
ALL SOULS’ SCHOOL,
CHARTERS TOWERS
Teaching Staff required for 1968
1. Physics and/or Chemistry to Matriculation standard.
2. French to Matriculation standard, preferably with
some Latin.
3. General Subjects, middle school (Forms 11-III).
Award salary and Superannuation Scheme.
Resident or non-resident.
For further particulars, apply Headmaster.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Required by
The Master Builders' Federation of Australia Inc.
in
CANBERRA
Min $lO,OOO P.A. plus Prestige House
DUTIES: Direct the activities of the Federation’s ad-
ministrative headquarters in Canberra. Be responsible
for preparation, organisation and running of Annual
Convention as well as Federal Council and Executive
meetings. Engage in Public Relations activities as
required to promote the objectives of the Federation, its
10 member associations and the image of the Building
Industry as a whole. Maintain close liaison with
appropriate Federal Government departments as well
as with other Federal bodies associated with the in-
dustry. Interstate travel is required occasionally and
overseas travel is a possibility. Entertainment of
appropriate senior people at the Director’s home is
expected fairly regularly.
QUALIFICATIONS: A degree (8.E., B. Build., B.
Com., B. Sc., 8.A., etc.) is regarded as a highly desir-
able basic qualification. Experience in the industry is
not essential but would be an advantage. Extensive
executive level administrative experience is necessary. A
“natural feel” for human relations is a must as is the
ability to enjoy mixing at all levels in commercial,
governmental, political and social spheres. Age should
approximate the 35-45 year range.
CONDITIONS: Minimum commencing salary $lO,OOO
P.A. plus a luxury 3 BR house. A car allowance is
paid and entertainment expenses reimbursed. This is a
responsible career executive role with salary prospects
in line with senior public service rates. The right man
can make a significant contribution to the development of
a really important Australian industry.
APPLICATIONS: In utmost confidence by letter giving
full relevant particulars to:—
"EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SPS9O2"
CULLEN MORTON PTY. LTD.
Consultants to Management
61 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney 2000
Initial interviews will be held in applicant’s home State.
Get 10 free
issues of
The Bulletin
An annual subscription to
The Bulletin costs only $10.40 postage
included, for Australian readers.
This represents a saving of $2.60
for every 52 issues.
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 52 issues of The
Bulletin. I enclose a cheque for $10.40.
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Address
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTION DEPT.,.
BOX 4088, G.P.0., SYDNEY 2001.
TAKE OUT A SUBSCRIPTION
NOW


"This Is Terrific!
Even I Can Handle
Our New Cartridge Stereo.”
Everyone will like making pre-recorded cartridge tapes for
enjoyment in their home, automobile or boat—in fact,
anywhere.
As Akai's latest model, it is everything you expect. Both
the 8-track and 4-track stereo cartridge recording and play-
back are great new developments. The later requires an
adaptor. You can transcribe with only this X-1800SD. All
sources of sounds can be recorded.
Of course, the X-1800SD is an all-solid state tape recorder
with the famous Cross-Field head and 4-track stereo/monaural
recording and playback reel-to-reel.
FEATURES:
Cartridge: *B-track stereo recording and playback *4-track stereo recording
and playback (using an adaptor) *Tape speed —3%" per sec. *Forty minutes
of continuous stereo recording track change system
program selector button *Private tapes can be recorded at home, for enjoy-
ment in your automobile, boat and anywhere
Reel: *4-track stereo/monaural recording and playback *4 speeds— l%">
3%, 7'/ 2 " and 15" per sec. *Cross-Field frequency response—3o to 23,000
cps *Automatic shutoff, Instant stop lever *3-digit index counter with reset
button *Signal to noise ratio—better than 50db
Cartridge and reel: 12W music power solid state amplifier
from reel to cartridge *DIN jack, Stereo headphone jack, VU meter *Oil
finished wooden cabinet voltage selector (100 to 240 V, 50/60 cps)
AKAI
0
AKAI ELECTRIC CO., LTD.
HIGASHIKOJIYACHO OHTA-KU TOKYO JAPAN
N.S.W.: Magnecord Australasia Pty., Ltd. 210 Clar-
ence St., Sydney Victoria: Magnecord Sales &
Service, 3-Albury Rd., North Balwyn Queensland:
Magnecord Sales & Service 399 Montague Bd.,
West End; Brisbane S.A.: Magnecord Sales &
Service, 8 Arthur St., Unley


'YV'Y
>■
4,
000
[OOOO
The privileged
people wear clothes
from Henry Buck’s
of Collins Street
It’s a privilege to be so well-dressed
(and a pleasure, too). And you
know, the great thing is, it costs
you not a cent more to enjoy the
delightful old-world up-to-the-
minute air-conditioned carpeted
armchair atmosphere of Henry
Buck’s. Drop in next time you’re
in Melbourne. A lot of people are
doing it. We offer you Australia’s
finest menswear and gifts. And pay
postage on mail orders.
TieKru Ducks
of-» OcH'mS S-ftneef-
-320 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone 67 9951.
Established 1890.
A Special Supplement
The shape of men
to come
By SANDRA DAWSON
AS EVERYONE tells us, it’s the age
of the peacock; men are preening them-
selves with a dash and diligence they
haven’t exhibited for centuries.
Well, some men, anyway. A recent
survey by the Men’s Fashion Council
came up with this detailed, cold, and
rather depressing documentation of the
fashion motivations of the male.
It seems boys begin taking clothes
seriously when they begin feeling the
same way about girls. They look for
more conservative clothes when they
settle on the girl they want to marry.
Interest in fashion declines with
marriage, until, at 40, there’s a
dramatic revival of clothes-consciousness
inspired by the spectre of middle age.
At 50, fashion fades again, coinciding
with what the survey calls rather
dispiritedly “a recession of physical
awareness.”
There are a few bright stops along
the path to fashion obscurity, however.
According to Sydney men’s fashion
authority John Lane, these occur in
Australia mostly at weekends. Probably
because of the climate, it is in the
DUNSTAN... summertime example
selection of his casual clothes that the
Australian male really shines. And the
surfing generation is perhaps the best-
dressed section of Australian manhood.
“This is true regardless of class
or income,” Lane said. “These young
men spend most of their money on
clothes, and as many of them don’t
have to dress up during the week the
weekends are when all the effort is
visible. Of course, many men develop
a schizophrenic feeling about their
clothes. They dress smartly and
imaginatively when they’re not at work,
but when they are doing business they
tend to dress more conservatively,
because they feel the people they’re
dealing with wouldn’t understand.”
In the past few months most of the
banks and government departments
have taken Hardy Amies’ advice and
allowed their employees to follow the
example of South Australian Premier
Don Dunstan and wear shorts in
summertime. But a few bastions still
remain, and in February a Chief Justice
in the Perth Supreme Court dealt a
blow to dress reform by ruling that
LANE ... shining casually


Straws by
AKUBRA
for men
that make the
summer scene
/
YOU'LL LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA'S TOP SELLING HAT
shorts worn with long socks were
“unacceptable dress” in Court.
But in March the “Tailor and Cut-
ter” balanced this by revealing that the
collar and tie is “slowly and reluctantly
on the way out,” to be supplanted by
the turtle-neck sweater. Then it ven-
tured even further into the future to
predict that central heating will finally
lead to men dispensing with everything
but a shirt-like garment for indoor
wear. The magazine saw, too, the
demise of buttons in favor of zippers.
That’s what we have to look forward
to. But what should the well-dressed
Australian man be wearing right now?
John Lane offered these points of
guidance. “Jackets should have deep
side vents open almost to the waist
and giving the flared look of a full
riding coat. A classic front. I think the
Cardin front looks ridiculous outside
Paris. Medium lapels and narrow
sleeves.
“Trousers sit on the hips with no
side pockets or pleats, because they
spoil the line. And high fashion decrees
a straight leg from thigh to knee, not
too slim, with an almost infinitesimal
flaring over the instep. This flaring is
the ultimate, but few people bother
about it. Shoes are light rather than
heavy, classic without gimmicks, and
square-toed to oval-toed.
“Cigar-brown is the most fashionable
color for hats, which have a slightly
conical and tapering crown and a two-
inch brim. It’s the hat the Duke of
Edinburgh wears . . . when he wears a
hat. Of course, there’s no reason why
Australian men shouldn’t wear a straw
in summer, as the Americans do.
“Shirts are perhaps the most import-
ant thing of all. A man can only
achieve the ultimate in being well
dressed if his shirt is made to order,
because it must fit close to his body.
For instance, if he is lean with a long
neck, he should wear a high collar.
Shirts are coming in all colors. White
shirts for business are a bit passe. You
can wear them in pale blues, pinks,
lemons, and interesting stripes. Of
course, there’s nothing more luxurious
than a silk shirt, but laundry is the
problem.
“This summer there’ll be sports
coats in colors we haven’t even thought
of. Anything from light navy to white
or pink.
“For evenings polo-neck sweaters
will definitely be worn not as a
rule but as a diversion at a resort or
a private dinner party. Perhaps a white
dinner coat, with a wine-colored or
black silk polo-neck. Dinner shirts in
the palest pink or cream will also be
worn with black tie and black coat, or
white tuxedo. There’ll be pastel-colored
dinner jackets, too, but they’ll have to
be worn with conventional white shirts.
Black boots look wonderful teamed
with dinner clothes.
“In London the trend is toward less
formal clothes at night. A black mohair
jacket or blazer with deep vents, or a
white silk jacket, instead of a suit.”
According to Lane, the best-dressed


FLORSHEIM... cut exclusively from
the world’s finest leathers
Calf..
from the heart of the hide
k.
BUCKNELL
Calf from Europe is the most magnificent leather in the
world for a quality shoe. The cattle live under shelter in
winter and under mild skies in summer. This produces the
softest, smoothest skins.
Florsheim select only the choicest calf for its fineness of
texture, richness and depth of colour, softness of feel.
Enjoy the beauty and supple comfort of Florsheim im-
ported calf, crafted in a wide range of handsome styles.
In Black, Perfecto Brown, Academy and Cordova. Price
$19.95
X
FLORSHEIM
atL,
FLORSHEIM
AMERICA’S STANDARD OF FINE SHOE VALUE


AN APPROVED BLEND OF
Teitylene’
*■&
■$ f
tii
IP
> >. N '*
H X
Parini men don’t
disclose what they pay
for their suits:
(around $100)
Many men in high places go out of their way to
buy Parini Suits. The gold signature of the Parini
label symbolises for them the dedication of tailors
of the “Old School”. Craftsmen whose skills were
handed down from father to son from the Guilds
of 16th century Florence. Parini fabrics reveal this
same insistence on excellence. Wherever a weaver
is known for the uniqueness of his cloths Parini
seeks him out. Is it surprising then, that so many
leaders insist on paying more for their Parini suits?
Wum
FROM $B5 TO $l5O
AS3I6A
man is the man who travels and so can
drain the best out of whatever city
he happens to be in . . . moccasins
from New York, a jacket from Hong
Kong, anything that can contribute to
an “international look.”
An airline steward often has a
smarter wardrobe than the businessman
travelling on the same plane, and the
politician who travels is naturally
better dressed than the one who doesn’t.
Lane also dared to generalise a little,
and here’s a summary of some of the
conclusions he reached.
Advertising men are receptive to
fashion, but architects are handicapped
by a tendency to stodginess, as are
bankers and, to generalise even more,
public servants. As one would expect,
actors dress with flair, as do men of
the legal profession. Men of a scien-
tific disposition, especially doctors and
dentists, exhibit little interest in clothes,
and, unlike their American counter-
parts, academics don’t bother much,
either.
Stockbrokers, on the other hand, are
elegant, while insurance men dress well,
although with not the same degree of
sophistication. Perhaps, surprisingly,
farmers and graziers emerge with a res-
pectable rating, having evolved a
fashion that is individually theirs.
Bread-brimmed hats, moleskin trousers,
and flannelette shirts have attained a
certain stylish aura.
Ironically, men’s - wear salesmen,
cursed with the stigma of string ties,
pointed shoes, and “vile” cufflinks, fail
miserably by Lane’s standards. “Even
at the height of their popularity*
pointed shoes were never worn any-
where other than in Australia. In Lon-
don, they were merely a ‘Teddy boy’
fad.”
Other things which Lane stamps as
ending a man’s chances in the sartorial
stakes are patterned socks, narrow
lapels, wide trousers, baggy trousers,
cuffs where there shouldn’t be cuffs,
cheap materials, cheap shirts, narrow
rayon ties, square white handkerchiefs
visible in a breast pocket, and hats
with brims which are too narrow.
He blames the prevalence of these
errors in Australia on the fact that “we
have a place to promenade. We don’t
have a season when the city is packed
with tourists from whom we could
learn.”
The ideal wardrobe for the young
executive, Lane believes, should con-
tain these elements: For year-round
wear, a dinner jacket and an informal
jacket, which could replace a suit at
dinner engagements; for winter, a
double-breasted blazer, preferably with
six buttons, a tweed jacket, along with
a second jacket still in use from the
season before, two dark suits (if they’re
necessary for business), one in a lighter
shade, and six pairs of shoes; for
summer, two lightweight suits for
everyday wear and a third for special
occasions, two sports jackets, another
six pairs of shoes, plenty of cashmere
and Shetland sweaters, a dozen shirts,
and as many ties as he likes from
six to 60.


ART AND ENTERTAINMENT
Lloyd Rees looks back
By MARGERY DAVIS
LLOYD REES has returned with the
sun of Italy still on him. His fourth
trip to Europe was a success, judging
by the painter’s health, the sheaf of
sketches he is at present working up
to large, sombre oils, and the finely
typed manuscript he is tentatively
titling “The Twenties and Other
Memories,” which, he said, cut him off
from the other passengers on the
going-and-coming sea voyages.
Mr. Rees returned to Australia to
find friends talking about a proposal
to hold a retrospective exhibition of
his work at the Art Gallery of
New South Wales toward the
end of 1969. Mr. Hal Miss-
ingham, the Gallery director,
who is chiefly responsible for
nominating painters for retro-
spectives, was abroad himself at
the time and knew nothing
about the discussions. But both
men are delighted. “I feel the
Gallery should definitely hold a
retrospective exhibition of Lloyd
Rees’ work,” said Mr. Missing-
ham after Gallery curator Mr.
Daniel Thomas had dropped
this latest piece of information
in conversation. “Mr. Rees is
an Australian painter of stature,
who has inspired many younger
painters.”
Lloyd Rees and his wife live
in a pink house in the quiet
backwater Sydney suburb of
Northwood. From their high
white-columned veranda they
see the tranquil Lane Cove
River before it sweeps to join
the Parramatta River with its
litter of wharves and ware-
houses. They have a happily
unplanned garden with lots of gums,
which Mr. Rees prefers to look at from
the basement level of his studio.
Now that Nolan’s retrospective has
been up for a few weeks, Mr. Rees is
giving his own retrospective some
thought. He and his wife are quietly
pleased, and he left his scones and
creamed honey suddenly to find Nolan’s
catalogue to discover how many he
had hung.
He said that he would be likely to
have fewer than Nolan’s 143 paintings,
and about half the number Dobell had
in his retrospective. In all, he thought
he would be selecting work dating back
as far as 1915, including oils, 30
sketches and pen-and-ink washes, and
a number of paintings from his latest
trip.
“When it comes to arranging retro-
spectives,” Mr. Rees said into his
scone, “I wish I had Nolan’s poetic
mind. Order and poetry seem to go
together in a painter. I wouldn’t know
who owns most of my paintings. My
sense of order went only as far as ex-
hibiting almost solely at the Macquarie
Galleries and fortunately the Mac-
quarie keeps a record of buyers.”
At one time Mr. Rees was chairman
of the Australian Unesco Committee
Lloyd Rees in his basement studio
Photography by BARRY G. McKINNON
for Visual Arts and for many
years has been president of the Society
of Artists and senior lecturer in Art
at Sydney University. As president of
the Society of Artists he became an
agile spokesman at rebutting criticism
of artists by city aldermen and in gain-
ing acceptance for abstract painting,
although his own work is essentially
representational.
At Sydney University he has tried
to give some idea of art to architec-
tural students. He is only half-tolerant
of buildings shaped like boxes, but sees
that today’s buildings with large foyers
and open wall space offer possibilities
for mosaics, enamel work, large abstract
paintings, sculpture, and for his own
obsession: colored translucent glass set
in lead, which no one in Sydney has
done much about yet. Whatever hap-
pens, he is adamant that billabongs
should be banished for ever, or at least
hung in the seclusion of the managing
director’s private office, if his apprecia-
tion of art is so limited.
Lloyd Rees has been pondering over
awnings for many years and would like
to see the ground-floor area of modern
buildings reduced, so that the first
floor protrudes over the footpath to give
shelter for pedestrians.
It is a monument to Rees and the
“Letters to the Editor” column in the
“Sydney Morning Herald” that some
order was given to new buildings fac-
ing Circular Quay. He wrote suggesting
that a Circular Quay Planning and
Development Committee be formed
(which was at once) and that a build-
ing be erected at the other end
of the Quay to complement the
height of the AMP building.
Goldfields House is now situ-
ated on the corner of Pitt Street,
and almost exactly complements
the height of the AMP building.
Rees suggested that the middle
section be left intact so that at
a later date Macquarie Place
could be extended to open into
a piazza at Circular Quay.
Rees still addresses groups,
opens exhibitions, and judges
contests, a task he regards
seriously, although his wife has
trouble in keeping his meals hot
for him and suffers the weight of
his decisions.
It is difficult to ease Rees into
talking about his work; he is
used to translating ideas into
reality and then letting them
speak for themselves. He does
not hang any of his work in his
house, but has a collection of
friends’ work, and points out
that he can remember when that
Wakelin over there caused a
furore when it was first
exhibited, and that another
painter had never received the recogni-
tion he had deserved.
Rees first studied at Julian Ashton’s
school, has watched the effects of the
arrival of European painters like Kmit,
Rapotec, and Orban, which gave, he
feels, some sophistication to local work,
and watched as commerce began to
"ake an interest in painting, and local
painters either rejected or accepted the
experience of running competitions with
large money prizes. Then almost over-
night art began to have a social sherry-
with-cheese flavor. But it is all interest,
Rees believes, and can lead to greater
knowledge and understanding.
We strolled down the slope to the
bus stop hoping to pinpoint the wan-
derings of the privately owned busline


which works on a 40-minute interval
service, Rees wearing a black beret over
his long wispy-grey strands of hair and
talking about his book, which men-
tions Sydney Ure Smith, Harry Julius,
Roland Wakelin, Bertram Stevens, Leon
Gellert, Roi de Mestre, Henry Law-
son, Norman Lindsay, Melba, Hans
Heysen, Max Meldrum, and George
Lambert, to name some.
The beret attracted the attention
of a Hungarian woman—it reminded
her of Europe—so the two strangers
settled down in the afternoon sun,
reminiscing over Europe, Hungarians,
and Orban, whom they both knew well,
while the 40-minute bus rumbled away
toward the city, some time later than
its timetable had indicated.
Theatre
A risky Othello
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Othello. William Shakespeare. Con-
servatorium. Sponsored by the Arts
Council of Australia (N.S.W. Divi-
sion).
THE CONTEMPORARY argument
about Othello turns on whether he is
to be regarded as a classical hero with
a tragic flaw in his character, which
brings about his downfall, or a good
and noble man who is ruined by the
devilish cunning of the villainous lago.
Peter O’Shaughnessy flatly rejects
the former view, which was provoca-
tively expressed by F. R. Leavis in his
attack on A. C. Bradley entitled
“Diabolic Intellect and the Noble Hero
or the Sentimentalist’s Othello.” In-
stead, O’Shaughnessy accepts the
Bradley view and regards the play as
“a study in the resourcefulness of evil
pitting itself against innocence, trust,
goodness, and the uncertainties of
romantic love.”
Since we have recently seen a bril-
O’Shaughnessy... a too-busy Othello
liant example of a Leavis “Othello”
in the film of the National Theatre
Company’s production with Olivier as
Othello, it seemed an interesting pros-
pect to have a Bradley “Othello” from
Mr. O’Shaughnessy.
In the midst of the quite extra-
ordinary circumstances which hampered
this production on the first night, it
was possible to discern a potentially
impressive performance by O’Shaugh-
nessy of the traditionally noble Othello,
a man with the superb confidence and
effortless authority of a victorious com-
mander and a rich, deep, melodious
voice speaking the verse with equal
confidence and authority.
But Rob Inglis is not a.t all happy
as lago. O’Shaughnessy’s interpreta-
tion demands a melodramatic villain
and Inglis attempts to play him in this
way, but he is shrill and mechanical.
If Othello is to be seen as innocent
and good and trusting, how are we to
see Desdemona? It seems that we were
lucky to see her (June Thody) at all
on the first night as she had been most
upset by an unexpectedly violent blow
from Othello in Act IV during the pre-
view performance. In view of this it is
not surprising that she did not make
a very strong impression. But, in any
case, this interpretation makes her a
pale personality, a mere victim.
In the circumstances of the principals
being in a state of shock, the relatively
small parts of Cassio and Roderigo,
which are often botched, were the
most successful on this evening. John
Norman gives us a graceful, lively,
and sensitive Cassio, while Peter Whit-
ford makes Roderigo a sympathetic
character, who is weak but not without
dignity.
Laboring under the difficulties that
it does, this production cannot really be
regarded as a proper test of Mr.
O’Shaughnessy’s interpretation of
“Othello.” I hope we shall have an
opportunity of seeing him attempt it
again in more favorable conditions.
I am inclined to join the chorus of
voices which is saying that O’Shaugh-
nessy should not have produced this
“Othello” himself. It would be a dif-
ferent matter if he had months instead
of weeks to rehearse, for, after all, in
his excellent Melbourne “Lear” in
1958 he was both lead and producer.
But the faults of this production
the slow pace, the placing of so much
of the action in the depths of the stage,
the general gloom as though the play
were being performed in a blackout,
and the impression that the main actors
are all acting in different plays all
these are easily attributable to the pro-
ducer’s being too busy acting to attend
to the balance and design of the pro-
duction. On the other hand, in fair-
ness to Mr. O’Shaughnessy, it should
be pointed out that there is a dearth of
good Shakespearian producers in this
country. And if he decided to produce,
not act, there is an equal shortage of
mature actors who could !play
Othello.
If it is any comfort to Mr. O’Shaugh-
nessy or Miss Thody, Fanny Kemble
recorded that she was black and blue
after playing in “Othello” with
Macready.
Faith and fun
By SANDRA DAWSON
“I FEEL LIKE Aimee Semple Mac-
pherson,” Lyle O’Hara said, referring
to the fact that she was being “serious
about religion”—or as serious as she
ever is about anything.
For Los Angeles and an American
husband have turned the Phillip
Theatre comedienne into a fervent
Baha’i, a word which people have
mistaken for both a variety of orgy
and a. song from “South Pacific,” since
her return to Australia.
“My brother-in-law said my belief
in it didn’t sound like me. What d’ you
mean? was my sharp rejoinder.”
But he was right. It was strange to
hear the woman who has been irreve-
rent about everybody from lady den-
tists to Anna Magnani quoting the
words of a Persian prophet, no matter
how up-to-date they sound.
“It’s the only thing that has a plan
for world unity. Nobody else has.
And let’s face it, if science and religion
don’t agree, we’re all going to blow
ourselves up.
“Baha’u’llah wrote about the power
of the atom, about space exploration
—and about the equality of the sexes
—in the Persia of 1844!”
Miss O’Hara’s husband, photographer
Wally Martindale, is even more
voluble on the subject of Baha’i than
she is. In fact, he introduced her to
it soon after they met last Christmas.
“He didn’t talk to me about it much
—just took me along to ‘firesides,’
which are gatherings where people
talk about Baha’i.
“I say now it took me about an
hour to become converted to it. But
I didn’t tell anyone. I thought they’d
think I was irresponsible
Although she describes her mother as
a regular churchgoer and her sister as
something of an evangelist, she herself
hadn’t had much interest in religion
before Baha’i.
“One of the social laws of Baha’i is
no alcohol. And I’m always saying
there should be a special dispensation
for Australians because they’re such
beer drinkers.
“I have noticed a tremendous increase
in drunkenness here since I got back,”
she added, sounding momentarily like
one of her own characters.
But only momentarily. She was soon
back to being irreverent—about Texas
(“they say that before America went
to war she had to ask Texas first”),
Canberra (“it’ll be nice once they build
the slums”) and about the American
sense of humor.
“I can’t use any Australian material
there—only the very obvious stuff that


we think a bit old hat. I can’t even do
a North of England accent because it
wouldn’t be understood. Except in a
few clubs in New York.
“One night, two women came up to
me after my act and said, ‘We couldn’t
understand a word you were saying, but
we could have listened to you all night.’
They really thought they were being
nice.” *
Miss O’Hara has been in the United
States for six years, working in night-
clubs, television, and most recently in
the Cole Porter Revue. But the most
significant thing that’s happened to her
is her development of a one-woman act
in the Joyce Grenfell tradition.
“She was the first person to say I
should work alone. Then in New York,
I had to. I’d been in a show which
was meant for Broadway and didn’t
make it. Things looked very bad,
until my agent got me a job in a club
by telling them I had an act. I was to
do 15 minutes alone ... 15 minutes
alone!”
She sat back in her chair, eyes widen-
ing, hand on stomach, voice reaching
her familiar Phillip Theatre pitch. “You
know I finished doing 40—parodies,
short sketches, one-line jokes. I can’t
write, but I can adjust things to suit
me—tailor them, you might say.”
Her career in comedy evolved in a
back-to-front manner, beginning with a
penchant for the dramatic. “Then I
realised that comics have to be more
Lyle O’Hara... going fast is unchic
in charge and more mature than any-
body after all, you don’t see any
teenage comics, do you?”
But a woman who chooses to be
funny for a living can still provoke a
quizzical reaction—especially from a
man.
“A man said to me one night after
my act, ‘What do you want to be that
for?’ I told him it had nothing to do
with me. But that’s what Americans
are like, very naive in an honest way.
And very sentimental. Out of America,
people think they’re emotional, or that
they’re not sincere. But they are.”
Miss O’Hara and her husband—they
married just before coming to Aus-
tralia—have taken a flat in Paddington
and are hoping to stay here for some
time. “I’d like very much to do a
single here.”
Ironically, Wally Martindale was in
Australia five years ago, while she was
still here, but they didn’t meet. That
happened at a party in Los Angeles.
“Everyone thinks I’m a bit eccentric
in Los Angeles because I walk every-
where. But going fast is so unchic.
“Anyway, the fumes from car ex-
hausts have so polluted the city that
it’s almost impossible. The U.S. is in
a very bad way, with the race riots and
everything else, but it deserves every-
one’s prayers, not condemnation. Yet
I liked being there. I kind of like be-
ing in the centre of things, no matter
how bad they are.”
With Gloria Dawn and Ruth Crack-
nell, Lyle O’Hara is playing in John
Mackellar’s revue for the Phillip, “I
Wouldn’t Want to Live There.”
She figures that if she doesn’t hit
the audience’s funny bone, one of the
others will. “Ruth does eccentric ladies,
Gloria is very warm and very Aus-
tralian, and I waft in and out with my
strange brand of bods.”
Art
Provincial zest
By ELWYN LYNN
The English Speaking Union Art Prize.
Hobart Gallery, Hobart.
Robert Jacks. South Yarra Gallery,
Melbourne.
Dale Hickey. Tolarno Galleries, Mel-
bourne.
WHAT WORRIES them in Hobart
is being provincial, isolated, and on the
periphery of culture, with the result
that theatrical and educational bodies
wish to sponsor local artists and the
local artists want to test themselves
against mainlanders. There is a fine
peripheral avidity to experience the
best, however, and a planeload of 40
students flew to Melbourne to see the
U.S. show and, on return, debated it.
Forty thousand slides of that show and
the one of recent British painting are to
be distributed to secondary schools.
Satirists might be amused to see
Hobartians trying to be with it, but
provincial excursions into cultural terri-
tory indicate the difference between
really experiencing metropolitan culture
and living with it merely as part of the
environment.
If Hobartians are isolated, then the
other side of the coin is the complacent
insularity of, for example, French
painting; but while the ESU Art Com-
petition was on, “The Mercury” in-
directly commented on isolation with a
front-page announcement of James
McAuley’s exclusion from a Soviet an-
thology. He was, however, labelled
“Tasmanian poet.’*
If you leave out the usual traditional
exercises and the very few examples of
the effete aspects of ecole de Paris, the
best of Tasmanian painting looks a
little like its people, lean, resilient,
purposeful, not tense, and free of arti-
ficial charm. So a modified cubism
suits a number of painters and the anti-
urban space in Hobart, peninsula and
water constantly vie for spatial domin-
ance conditions the more lively
painters to sympathetic assessment of
recent British and U.S. painting. Geoff
Parr’s grey, shiny mists are cut by
rectangular slabs of grey islands; Paul
Boam floats foliage out of English
abstraction in vast Tasmanian areas of
green and blue, and Patricia Giles has
a wan, scumbled lake that picks up the
tough symbolic rhythms of a piece of
wood she has attached, and even Jack
Carrington Smith, winner of the trad-
itional prize with a portrait of Diane,
who has • a certain twisted smile and
glance, essayed a species of Kline with
some black, burnt bough shapes on
white.
The winner of the open section,
John Haywood’s Aeolus, a mildly
textured, stained, opalescent pink-
brown glow breaking through brown,
comes right out of the earth, but his
principal challenger, Tony Woods’
Three Figures, is a kind of Lautrecian
expressionism; he is taking advantage
of his deliberately irresolute line by
now presenting figures who are doubt-
ful if they have two or four arms. He’s
trying to combine angst and futurist
movement, and this gives an oddity
that he has yet to take advantage of.
Christine Taylor takes a slight advan-
tage of Nay, Mary Fooks gives Parisian
grace some zest with a green chair and
flowers, Max Angus knows that ruddy
nudes are lush and lively, and Tim
Waller most delicately balances a series
of back, hollow, art-nouveau striped and
wooden squares . . . and there were
virtues, too, in Kate Pickering (sweet-
sour, cool-warm, atmospheric ecole de
Paris), Ewins, Gough, Audrey Flock-
hart, and Betty Haywood’s Genesis
11.
This show goes to Launceston and
Devonport, and its organisers, the
National Theatre and Fine Art Society,
might be encouraged to know that four
or five of the works would not lower the
standard of the Transfield now at
Sydney’s Reserve Bank.
Despite the reliance on varied modes,
the Tasmanians are individualists and
shouldn’t avoid internationalism, for, as
Patrick McCaughey said last week of
Sydney painters, hard-edge painting has
not spelt anonymity, and Robert Jacks’
flirtation with Albers’ squares has not
diminished his personal elegance, grace,
and clarity. Till recently he did homage
to the harmonious biomorphic bulge
that he balanced against slightly pulsat-
ing flat areas that persist in his new
work along with his ambiguous light
sketchiness. He now isolates one or a
set of squares in off-white, dusty rose, or


fragilely pale yellow. Oddly enough
the isolation is countered by the boun-
dary around the squares; these are like
striped shot-silk and set the whole paint-
ing aquiver. The squares can be empty,
look like a Davis, or skip with sketchy
touches, and he’s doing homage to the
square in a way quite different from
Albers, for Jacks is a superb practi-
tioner of the legerdemain of balancing
elegance with tenseness. Compared with
Albers’ control, Jacks’ is high-strung
indeed.
In turn, in comparison, Dale Hickey
makes of flat abstraction something
deliberately mordant and mundane: he
has lolly-pink stripes cutting optical
grooves at the painting’s edge; he sets
down row after row of pyramids with
such finality that they begin to look like
sharks’ teeth, and he lays three small
three-dimensional pillows in a sea of
sour dun olive. He sets four of these
pillows on red and lets the blue dots
that he places symmetrically on the
painting change hue as they overlap the
pillow forms, and thus gives to trompe
l’oeil abstraction some of Magritte’s
surrealism. These resentful-looking and
quite original works have no charm,
no elegance, but much of the severe
implacability of a Mortensen or a
Baumeister.
Some Hobartians should admire
Hickey’s toughness.
Films
Two mistresses
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
La Peau Douce (Soft Skin). Director,
Francois Truffaut.
Any Wednesday. Director, Robert Ellis
Miller.
FOR THE PAST DECADE, the more
interesting film-makers have been de-
parting more and more from the purely
narrative style, rearranging time
sequences, using jump-cuts and frozen
or speeded action, experimenting with
camera angles and sound. The results
have been interesting—exciting at best,
infuriating at their worst; but I’ll admit
to an occasional sneaking longing for
a movie that started at the beginning of
the story and went straight on to the
end. How perverse is human nature!
Now that Truffaut has given me just
that, I can’t help feeling that “Soft
Skin” is rather old-fashioned.
Of course, we are seeing the film
some three years after its making, but
Truffaut had already directed “The
Four Hundred Blows,” “Jules et Jim,”
and “Shoot the Pianist,” which were all
technically experimental. “Soft Skin”
is thoroughly straightforward in tech-
nique and presentation; and, while I’m
getting extremely tired of experimen-
tation for its own sake, I feel that a
little originality of approach wouldn’t
come amiss here, especially as the plot,
though still a strong and valid one, is
of the standard variety.
It’s the story of a love affair between
a well-to-do, fortyish, married man and
a young air hostess an association
which, starting as a casual flirtation,
grows into an obsession, an embarrass-
ment, and finally a tragedy to the man
concerned. The script, perceptive and
literate, presents with rueful humor the
progress of the relationship, the tangle
of lies, evasions, and strategems in
which the husband finds himself en-
meshed. The situation is finally re-
solved by what seemed to me a totally
unacceptable descent into melodrama;
people certainly do behave oddly, but
a little clue in the earlier stages would
have made the climactic explosion of
violence easier to believe.
The film is extremely well-cast and
acted, with Jean Desailly and Fran-
coise Dorleac completely credible as
the lovers; and Nelly Benedetti, as
the wife, almost made me believe that
absurd ending. It’s always an interest-
ing film and smoothly made, but it’s
certainly no landmark in film-making.
Curiously enough, “Any Wednesday”
is based on the same central situation
of husband, wife, and mistress both
movies could take as subtitle the old
Navy toast to “Sweethearts and Wives”
—but here all resemblance ceases. In
“Any Wednesday” the plot is presented
strictly for laughs, with any deeper
human implications only hinted at al-
most imperceptively. Nobody in it ever
dreams of physical violence, and
since it’s the sort of movie it is—an
eligible young man is provided to
square off the triangle at the end, and
ensure a happy ending, at least for the
mistress.
It’s a charming, undemanding
comedy, smart and funny from the
credit titles on. Its appeal is due in
no small measure to Jane Fonda, one
of the prettiest actresses around and one
of the few who can play a rattlebrain
without being infuriating. She presents
the millionaire’s once-a-week mistress
as a thoroughly engaging creature,
frivolous, yet with a vein of rather
upside-down respectability, who worries
about hurting her lover’s wife, yet, when
he reassures her that his Wednesdays
with her make him a better husband for
the rest of the week, retorts sharply
that she doesn’t really want to help
his wife, either.
In a splendidly timed comedy per-
formance, Jason Robards is a lover no
girl could resist, and manages his in-
fidelities much more expertly than
Jean Desailly; he’s found out in the
end by a set of unfortunate circum-
stances, not his own clumsiness; while
Dean Jones is just the sort of nice,
reliable young man any woman would
wish to have waiting when she regret-
fully bade farewell to the older char-
mer. The direction is fast and lively,
and the movie is delightful entertain-
ment something in the vein of “Bare-
foot In The Park,” but to my mind both
funnier and more likable.
Design
Movable feast
By SANDRA JOBSON
ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO, jewellers
Helge Larsen and Darani Lewers be-
gan a study of people and other ani-
mate objects in motion. They observed
the turn of a head as a woman danced,
the flutter of a hand at a railway
carriage window, the pulsing of a sea
anemone, and they moulded what they
saw into mobile jewellery.
In their exhibition of two years’ work
at Gallery A in Paddington, Sydney,
this month, silver pendants twisted and
swung, heavy rings turned and rolled,
and bracelets expanded and changed
shape like an optical illusion. Many
of the simple, sophisticated pieces had
been on show earlier this year at Expa
67.
Outlining the ideas behind their
work, Australian-born Darani Lewers
explained that the new style is a break-
away and yet a continuation of their
older jewellery forms, which they
created when they met in Helge’s native
Denmark, and married in 1961.
“We developed a particular style
then,” she said, describing their early
monolithic work. “It was large and
simple. Each piece was an entity in it-
self. But the time came when we
decided we had reached the limit. It
was the moment to change.”
So movement became their obsession.
“We had to rethink in terms of lots of
small parts together instead of large
beaten forms,” she said.
Earrings, they found, were the freest
forms of all. “They are like little
mobiles,” said Darani. But earrings are
limited by weight, so, next, they turned
to pendants, rings, bracelets, and neck-
lets and explored further the theme
of movement.
Darani and Helge find that they
are working more and more in har-
mony with one another. “One of us
will think up a form and make it into
a ring, then the other thinks it could
be made into a pendant as well,” said
Darani.
Since they switched to mobile
jewellery they have made other changes
in their craftsmanship.
They suddenly realised the potential
of a high polish. Just as a high polish
adds dimension to a diamond, so it gives
depth to silver. And they have experi-
mented with wood combined with silver
for brooches, rings, pendants, silver
bowls, and elegantly simple knives.
They will be off soon back to Den-
mark to see Helge’s parents and give
them their first glimpse of their grand-
children, son, Tor, and daughter, Pia.


BOOKS
A credibility gap in Australia’s
short stories
By FRANK ROBERTS
Short Stories of Australia. The Mod-
ems. Chosen by Beatrice Davis.
Angus and Robertson. $4.
THE 30 SHORT STORIES in this
companion volume to “Short Stories of
Australia. The Lawson Tradition” are
the very essence of Australian short
story writing since 1940. They have
been chosen by Beatrice Davis, of Angus
and Robertson, and come mostly from
26 books of short stories, of which more
than half were published by A & R.
“The Moderns,” then, is a definitive col-
lection by the caretakers of Australian
short story writing; from their view-
point.
Viewpoint has to be the basis of any
issue one would take with —• not just
the publishers but the publishers in this
matter. Otherwise there would be no
point to a review. The stories are nearly
all well known and have been read (12
of them originally in The Bulletin) and
in most instances reviewed before. The
aspect which disturbs me most is that
the youngest of these “moderns” is
“New Yorker” writer Shirley Hazzard,
aged 36. Others near her age are Mena
Abdullah, Elizabeth Harrower, Ray
Mathew, and Peter Shrubb. Most of the
rest are in their late forties or their
fifties.
Are we to believe that no one now
under 30 years of age has written even
one story comparable to if not better
than any of the stories in this definitive
volume? No, it seems more likely that
Beatrice Davis and her colleagues
Douglas Stewart and John Abernethy,
who helped clarify her thoughts and
opinions, decided (and wisely in the
circumstances) to choose stories by
writers who had produced a body of
literature in this medium. If so, it
should have been said, somewhere in
Miss Davis’ introduction. It would have
explained, better than she has, some of
the notable omissions, including the
work of younger writers.
As it is, this immediately noticeable
gap in Australian short story writing
becomes a credibility one. Many of
the universities have annual short story
contests, many city festivals, too; the
half dozen or so literary quarterlies
publish about two dozen short stories
each year; one commercial magazine
company uses many more, and so on. A
casual reader might wonder had all
of these sources been combed, and how
thoroughly?
Without the assurance that a body of
short stories, a collection, had been a
large consideration (not the only one,
as Amy Witting’s presence shows) any-
one might wonder just how a good
young writer would make himself
known. The result of such research
would be astonishing.
Thelma Forshaw of “The Modems”
has been writing since the 1940 s and is
about to have her first collection pub-
lished. Of the 29 other writers, most
have had one short story volume pub-
lished—but only eight a second book—
in all these years. Will this be the fate,
of Heleanor Ewing, a young, aware
writer, who won the University of
N.S.W. contest this year from only
11 other entrants?
Despite assurances to the contrary in
Miss Davis’ introduction and the jacket
blurb, the short story form in Aus-
tralia has no “feeling of fresh winds
blowing.” This is still the country in
which Hal Porter recalled (in “The
Paper Chase”), “I send these stories
nowhere.” He began to publish them 20
years later, when Australian literature
had caught up. Porter then, someone
else today?
Nor will Miss Davis’ dogma on the
short story (which may be Frank
O’Connor’s, may be hers, may be a
merging, it is not made clear) help
Australian story writers. “The good
short story writer is an artist who
chooses to explore and communicate
some significant moment of experience.
His art, unlike that of the novel, is a
personal one, in the sense that poetry is
personal, reaching today only a small
audience: it is a lonely art, and very
often about lonely people. (This at
least applies to the greatest short
stories of the modern world.)”
With deference, all of this is merely
one person’s opinion. The “some signifi-
cant moment of experience” dogma is
as arguable as any other. Very recently
I read a perfect story by Nadine Gordi-
mer (South Africa) which covered
almost the entire lifetime of two Jewish
sisters. With a different reference, a
short story might be likened to a paint-
ing. It is, and is there to experience,
not puzzle over, explain, try to squeeze
into a preconceived frame. Does the
short story have to reach only a few
people? Frank O’Connor’s stories, in
several American magazines, and re-
prints elsewhere, reach more people
than many good novels. Most Austra-
lians live in cities, which to many are
the loneliest places on earth.
A good short story is a marvellous
experience. The form, far from being
limited, worked out, or struggling for
breath is, in a world context, open to as
much exploration and experiment as
any other art form; and, what’s more, it
is getting it in very many countries.
One side of the prism, the story as
social comment, instant history if you
like, meets the disapproval of Miss
Davis and her colleagues. I think this
is a pity and a weakness. America’s
two main annual short story collections,
“Best Short Stories (of the year)” and
“O. Henry Prize Stories,” are and
were volumes in which the reader could
discover instantly how the U.S. was
going, what it was thinking, when it
was strong, when it was puzzled. The
same “instant history” exists in black
Africa’s stories today.
Angus and Robertson’s and Austra-
lia’s 30 “moderns” in this collection
make one distinct and saddening im-
pression on me. They do not seem to
live in Australia today. If this marvel-
lous thing, the short story, was in a
state of robust health in Australia, then
among 30 otherwise perceptive writers
you would find many, many touch-
stones. But the hand reaches out and
touches it feels like a cold marble
slab.
Of course it’s not Angus and Robert-
son’s fault, but our collective fault. We
who are, in a way, the Governments,
obviously expect to hand out a few


pittances to a few writers, and to a
few mostly-run-by-enthusiasts literary
magazines, and to publishers to subsi-
dise a few works into publication, and
thereby create an Australian literature.
In business terms the money expended
would not pave, kerb, and gutter one
new street a year.
Today’s new patrons of the Arts, the
business houses, divert money into
sport, paintings, and sculpture, drama,
and many other activities. Why doesn’t
literature appeal to them as a subject
for philanthropy, which heaven knows
it needs? Is it because “anyone can
write a short story”? True, but not ten
of them, or enough to fill a book, which
is what we’re talking about. Then
you’re in the devoted realm of art.
Could it be that the philanthropists
have read a few Australian short stories
and found nothing in them to excite the
“wallet nerve”?
An Australian literature must be
among the many non-materialistic
offerings of a more leisurely tomorrow,
and I sense that, consciously or other-
wise, this is in the minds of Miss Davis
and her colleagues. The two volumes
of “Short Stories in Australia” seem
almost to have been readied as text-
books for that time (but what will the
third volume be called, after a non
sequitur?).
“Short Stories of Australia” are two
necessary books, and despite my growl-
ings there are many good stories in
them. I would only like to see many
very much better short stories in future
collections; stories which, because they
are so good, have to be reprinted from
world collections.
Vietnam realities
By PETER SAMUEL
Victor Charlie. Kuno Knoebl. Pall
Mall. $6.60.
DESPITE ITS TITLE this is not a
book about the Viet Cong. It is another
general book on the Vietnam war.
True, the author, an Austrian news-
paper reporter, made use of his neutral
status to contact the Communists and
he describes a visit to a fortified ham-
let near Bien Hoa and a trek with Viet
Cong soldiers from the Mekong in
Cambodia across the border into the
South Vietnamese central highlands.
But he gained rather little information
of interest on these two dangerous
expeditions, and most of the book is
written from the facilities available to
any Western journalist operating out of
Saigon.
The book illustrates interestingly
both the value and the shortcomings
of the honest, simple reporter in the
Vietnam situation. There is value in
the man’s lack of preconceptions, his
willingness to give as much detail in
his word pictures to the horror of com-
munist executions and terror as to the
brutality of Vietnamese interrogators
and air attacks on communist fortified
hamlets. Despite being translated from
a German text, the book is good read-
ing, always lively, and to the point.
The descriptions of military clashes are
extraordinarily vivid and convey well
the nastiness of the reality of war
the injustices of good brave men
slaughtered because of the cowardice
or selfishness of others, and of the fears,
pain, and desolation which weapons
cause.
On a few points our reporter does
say something new and significant.
Having travelled in western Cambodia
several times with the Viet Cong, he
is able to verify the fact that they
have unchallenged control of large
areas along the border with South
Vietnam; indeed, they appear to be
the dominant authority in most of the
area east of the Mekong. Route 19
from Stung Treng, on the Mekong,
which proceeds across the border into
Pleiku and down to the South China
Sea at Qui Nhon, is completely open
for Communist traffic within Cam-
bodia.
Knoebl flew with Laotian bomber
missions against the Ho Chi Minh
trail in December, 1965, at the time
Dr. Caims was ridiculing its existence
as a significant supply line. Even then,
according to Knoebl, it was being
developed into a roadway up to 30
feet wide, with truck bridges across
rivers being built just below the water’s
surface to make air detection difficult.
A young Viet Cong soldier, to whom
the author spoke, explained their reasons
for dealing mercilessly with American
soldiers during the la Drang valley
battle: “Our comrades felt no pity; they
knew they had to kill as many Ameri-
cans as possible. We had been told to
slaughter as many imperialist soldiers
as we could, since, if the number of
American dead mounted, the American
people who dislike this war would
overthrow their Government. We have
also heard that there have been uprisings
Major VC arms dump... fruitless?
in the United States against the war-
mongers.” An interesting commentary
on the politics of the war.
But for its value as simple reportage,
this book is weak and unconvincing
when it touches on matters requiring
judgment.
Like most newsmen in Vietnam, im-
patient for something new to report,
Knoebl became impressed by the same-
ness of military operations and the lack
of any decisive victories. He constantly
describes operations as fruitless or un-
successful when they achieve only un-
spectacular results. A patrol he went
on was “fruitless” because Viet Cong
guerillas slipped away, although a major
supply dump was found and destroyed.
A battle in which 700 Communists
were killed at the cost of 200 friendly
is described as unsuccessful because “the
chance to annihilate an entire North
Vietnamese regiment was lost.”
In frustration he attributes super-
human qualities to the Communists,
building up a picture of their invinci-
bility. Despite the fact that his own
descriptions of battles tell us about the
horrible bloodshed wrought by airpower
and artillery against communist troops,
we are told in generalisation: “No
matter where they drop the bombs, fire
the shells, deploy the troops, the enemy
is not there.”
Knoebl gets a lot of facts wrong.
Diem didn’t refuse to sign the Geneva
agreement, because he wasn’t around
then. The Communists did not “drop
the idea of forming divisions.” The Viet
Cong have divisions, numbered 5,7, 9,
and the North Vietnamese have seven
more “in-country.” The Special Forces
do not run the refugee program, Chieu
Hoi, and propaganda. And if the
Americans are sometimes silly with
their statistics, why quote figures for
the number of houses and huts destroyed
in the war? No one really has a clue.
Party that failed
By SIBNARAYAN RAY
The Japanese Communist Movement
1920-1966. Robert A. Scalapino.
University of California Press. SB.IO.
THE CASE OF JAPAN illustrates very
well the fallacy of Marxian historicism.
It is the most highly industrialised
country in the non-Western world; it
has a large and organised working class;
and its peasantry has been profoundly
affected by the forces of technological
change. The Japanese Communist
Party is now 45 years old (founded
July 15, 1922); yet it has not been able
to poll more than five percent of the
total national vote in recent elections.
Even in predominantly agricultural
India the Communists have fared much
better, despite their organisational split,
while in Indonesia they came to be the
biggest political force before the abor-
tive coup of September 30, 1965.
In fact, as Professor Scalapino shows


REMINDER TO WRITERS
THE ADVERTISER
$4,000
LITERARY COMPETITION
_ 1900 _
$2,000
FOR ORIGINAL UNPUB-
LISHED NON-FICTION BOOK
$2,000
FOR ORIGINAL
UNPUBLISHED NOVEL
Particulars and entry forms from
Promotions Department, “The
Advertiser", Box 392 A, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia. Entries
close November 30th, 1967. (Please
enclose a self-addressed envelope).
JUDGES: Dr. B. R. Elliott, Uni-
versity of Adelaide. Mr. C. W.
Semmler, Deputy General Manager,
Australian Broadcasting Commission.
Mr. Max Fatchen, Special Writer,
“The Advertiser".
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
in his well-documented study of the
Communist movement in Japan, the
JCP “is essentially a weak party,
although one with certain enclaves of
strength.” In the 1965 House of Coun-
cillors election, the Communist vote
within the total “Left bloc” vote was
12.96 percent (Socialists 68.4 percent,
Democratic Socialists 17.4 percent). As
to its working-class support, while the
anti-Communist Domei Kaigi (Jap-
anese Confederation of Labor) con-
tinues to show remarkable vigor, even
within the Socialist-dominated Sohyo
(General Council of Trade Unions)
Communist strength “does not exceed
20 percent, and it may be less.” In
short, concludes Scalapino, “under
present conditions, the Communist
Party of Japan cannot be considered a
major political force.”
This weakness of the JCP may not be
explained in terms of Marxian analysis.
It derives on the one hand from the
peculiar character of the modernisation
process in Japan, and on the other,
from the general problems of Com-
munism in industrially developed
societies. The political elite which
initiated Japan’s modernisation “came
largely from the traditional ruling class
and partook deeply of its values.” It
made the fullest use of indigenous re-
sources, both institutional and cultural;
the economic revolution which it accom-
plished did not make the Japanese
people feel alienated from the Govern-
ment. The Communists in Japan were
denied their two main sources of appeal
in underdeveloped and colonial or semi-
colonial societies. They could not pre-
sume to be better nationalists than those
who were already entrenched in leader-
ship, nor could they vie for the honor of
initiating industrialisation. “They
arrived much too late.”
At the same time, as in other
economically developed societies, pros-
perity has naturally tended to reduce
the appeal of revolutionary ideology to
the working class. Japan’s steady
economic development has made the
working class less responsive to revolu-
tionary politics; it has “increased the
quotient of economicism in the Labor
movement.” In recent years under a
new Mainstream leadership the JCP
has made some improvement in its
position, but “the chances for Com-
munist success in Japan do not appear
promising, barring external interfer-
ence.”
After a brief but masterly survey of
the Japanese Communist movement
before 1945, Professor Scalapino goes
into a detailed stage-by-stage account
of the history of the JCP during the
past 20 years. The survey of the pre-
war period clearly brings out the pre-
dominantly intellectual composition of
the JCP (membership before 1945 never
reached 1000), its failure to capture and
use nationalism, and the continuous and
extensive Russian control over the JCP
leadership and policy. A new phase
began after the war when the JCP tried
to become a mass party and followed
the strategy of “peaceful revolution,”
Alvah Bessie... spokesman
thereby raising its membership in five
years from 1000 to 100,000 and gaining
an all-time high vote in the 1949 elec-
tions.
But in 1950 the new Russian line
backed by the Chinese pushed the JCP
to Left adventurism and the conse-
quences were disastrous. After five
years in the wilderness, the Party began
a slow, painful retreat from ultra-
Leftism toward a united-front policy,
but it was plagued by internal divisions,
made worse by the rapidly growing
conflict between Moscow and Peking.
Initially, the new Mainstream leader-
ship tried to maintain a neutral attitude;
but by 1963, its position became
violently anti-Soviet and pro-Chinese.
Reconciling its united-front strategy
with the militant pro-Peking line, how-
ever, proved to be extremely difficult,
and the Russians took advantage of this
by backing the Left forces outside the
JCP. In 1966 the Party again changed
its policy, for the first time seeking to
establish its independence of both
Moscow and Peking. The emphasis
currently is on national Communism—
on the building of a “national demo-
cratic united-front” based on the
“principles of genuine independence,
democracy, peace, neutralism, and the
improvement of the people’s liveli-
hood.”
Scalapino suggests factors which pre-
cluded the growth of a totalitarian mass
party. But the most decisive was the
independent development of a national
political elite in Japan which success-
fully undertook modernisation, long
before the rise of the Communist move-
ment.
Parallels
By JOHN BAXTER
The Symbol. Alvah Bessie. The Bodley
Head. $3.15.
ALVAH BESSIE IS a writer fortunate
enough to have earned some transient
notoriety as one of the “Hollywood
Ten,” film makers and scenarists who,
because of their refusal to testify before
the McCarthy hearings in 1947, were
jailed for short periods. The ten months
Bessie spent in prison have sustained
him since, both emotionally and artistic-
ally. His book “The UnAmericans” is
probably the most successful popular
expose of the McCarthy phenomenon,
and he is cquently heard as a spokes-
man for the old ’forties Left movement.
This role as symbol and public
speaker has unfortunately obscured the
fact that Mr. Bessie is not an especially
talented writer. In “The Symbol,” as in
his scripts, the dialogue is limp, the
situation stock, the whole book a weary
excursion into fields already too well
gleaned to bear re-examination.
Although he denies, by implication at
least, any similarity between the story
of his novel’s sex symbol and that of
Marilyn Monroe, the parallels are too
obvious to be denied. Wanda Oliver,
Bessie’s star, begins with an early and
unsuccessful teenage marriage during
the war, gains notoriety as a nude
model, enters movies in bit parts, shows
some meagre talent as a comedienne,
becomes finally a star, is divorced a few
times, marries an intellectual and
dies by an overdose of sleeping pills.
Perhaps Bessie did establish the basic
pattern of this story in 1956, as a pre-
face suggests, but his decision to rewrite
it as a novel in 1967 cannot be divorced
from the wave of necrophilic adulation
on which the Monroe name is now
riding.
While parts of “The Symbol” are
intermittently interesting, it paints a
picture of Hollywood ruthlessness and
corruption far inferior in impact and
accuracy to those presented by Hecht,
Schulberg, and Fitzgerald. Lavish sexual
detail and the liberal use of four-letter
words stand in for truth and, stripped
of its more garish elements, the skeleton
of the novel is as shabby as a cheap
newspaper sjossip column.


niiiiii)
on its own
is clearly
superlative..
GOUTREU
adds
intrigue
to a long
drink...
tiinu
weaves
a spell
over ice
-cubes...
For a sheer, distinctive taste, there’s only
one Cointreau the unique, clear liqueur
which was perfected over 150 years ago in
Angers, France. As a liqueur, in cocktails,
on the rocks or as a long drink with tonic
water, Cointreau is clearly superlative.
Discover the exotic taste of famous
UISCiXIISH liqueurs.
There are twelve fascinating Regnier
liqueurs produced by Cointreau:
CHERRY BRANDY, CREME DE MENTHE,
FRAMBOISE BRANDY, CREME DE CACAO,
MAJESTIC AU COGNAC, APRICOT BRANDY,
BANANA BRANDY, BLACKBERRY BRANDY,
PRUNELLE D’ANJOU, CREME DE CASSIS,
NOISETTE BRANDY, ANISETTE.
Enjoy a delightfully different Regnier liqueur tonight!
For cocktail and dessert recipes, write to:
COINTREAU INFORMATION CENTRE,
120-130 QUEENS PARADE,
NORTH FITZROY.
cj1949/h
SOMETHING
NEW
WITH GRAHAM KERR
The taste of
success comes
with breakfast
BREAKFAST IS well named—the
breaking of a fast that has lasted ten, 11,
or 12 hours since an evening meal about
8 o’clock, or perhaps a light snack at
bedtime. And sleeptime can be as
exhausting as a strenuous day at the
office. If you doubt it, count the sleep-
ing tablets swallowed each year.
Millions.
An executive’s sleep is a retreat from
the phone, not from decisions. Top
men I’ve questioned admit freely that
their pre-sleep rest frequently is a time
of hefty decision-making and there is
often a carryover of worry during the
night. And, quite apart from the mental
exercise, the body still functions, still
requires heat, still processes the last
meal, the heart beats, the lungs inhale.
All these services use fuel.
No, sleeptime has a lot in common
with the working day, except that we
do not eat. And a gulp of coffee and
a half-moon bite of toast is no way to
break a ten-, 11-, or 12-hour fast. Almost
without exception successful men eat a
good, leisurely breakfast. I am com-
pletely convinced that this is a common
factor among those who reach the top.
I often hear remarks which amount
to- “I’m too busy for breakfast,” or
“Only rich men who employ a cook can
eat breakfast in style.” I believe only
the lazy skip this meal, which is a very
good reason why they never get rich
enough to employ a cook.
With each new day, does your head
ache, do you feel weary, does the pros-
pect of the day’s responsibilities drive
you back to ideas of sleep? If so, don’t
despair—the top men in my panel who
leap out of bed in “Andrews’ ” fashion
number only one percent. The answer
is to heed the cry from every muscle of
the body, “Don’t let me go to work on
an empty stomach.”
More favorite foods are eaten at
breakfast than any other meal. And as
the stomach is eager, the need real,
what you eat really tastes. The variety
of breakfast foods is somewhat limited,
but here are some worth thinking about
if your morning meal is in a rut.
Starters: Fruit juices, fresh fruit,
stewed fruit, dried fruits, vegetable
juices.
Cereals: Hot, porridge-types, or cold
in every imaginable shape, taste, and
sound!
Eggs: Scrambled, boiled, poached,
fried, coddled, shirred, jenna, omelets,
en cocotte.
Fish: All fresh fish, fried, grilled,
poached, or steamed, but my preference
is smoked fish poached, and served with
poached egg or parsley sauce.
Meats: Rump steak or other beef
steaks, bacon or ham. Lamb’s fry,
calves’ liver, kidneys, sausages.
Vegetables: Usually restricted to
tomatoes. Some people manage chips
—I can’t.
Specials: A platter of cold meats
(European origin and good); flapjacks
and maple syrup (Canadian and be-
yond my comprehension); Scouse
(Liverpool, North England, and com-
pletely revolting).
Doesn’t look too bad, does it? But if
breakfast is to be taken seriously, then
which of the alternatives provide the
best get-up-and-go for a busy day?
Well, first the mouth needs a tastebud
stimulator. I see nothing wrong in a
4 fl. oz. glass of diabetic orange or
grapefruit juice. Let me stress diabetic
or unsweetened. This gives approxi-
mately 14 grammes of carbohydrate,
which is considerably less than the
sweetened variety. The trouble with a
whole orange is that it increases carbo-
hydrate by 2 grammes, and when the
daily total is 60 every little bit counts.
A protein intake at breakfast is
absolutely essential. Exhaustive tests
have shown that the maximum degree
of well-being and minimum fatigue
result from eating 20 grammes of pro-
tein. Yet our daily cereals contain about
6 to 8 grammes in hot types, and 3 to
4 grammes the cold varieties. So there’s
a deficiency of at least 17 grammes of
protein if you only have a bowl of
cornflakes.
One step you should take is to add
4oz. of toasted wheatgerm to every
lOoz. packet of cereal. While this only
marginally increases protein it positively
reeks with vitamins (Vitamin E, Iron,
B, etc.). Powdered milk will also up
the protein, give calcium and Vit. B 2—
it also cuts down the sugar require-
ment. But never believe that cereal
alone can start the day—it’s an opener,
but must always have a chaser.
Apart from the flapjacks, all the usual
egg, fish, and meat foods are excellent
protein-providers, quite sufficient to
make the 20-gramme target. The some-
what comical steak-’n’-eggs breakfast is,
in fact, the best that money can buy.
It is low on carbohydrate and positively
monolithic in protein. Whenever I have
a 4oz. steak with an egg on top for
breakfast I am dangerous for the rest
of the day!
The rest is really over to you. I
prefer brioche to toast, honey to mar-
malade, coffee to tea. These are all
personal preferences; no doubt you have
yours. What is vital for the executive’s
mind is a good breakfast. His decisions
w'ill be better, his temper controlled,
headaches gone. His wife should enjoy
the change.


If you’ve only the
Graham Kerr would like
a hundred or so words
with you.
, *' _ * y-y
“Clarified Butter is quite simply puredairy
butter with the water, salt and curd re-
moved. In fact, it’s over 99% pure butter-
fat. As it contains no moisture it doesn't
splutter and foam’when it’s melted. And
because the salt and curd have been
removed, it won’t catch or burn. You can
shallow fry and saute with it and come up
with a perfect job every time. What’s more
you use Clarified Butter at temperatures
lower than those recommended for other
cooking fats and oils. This means protein
fibres are cooked more gently. They don't
toughen up. And you have to use so little
Clarified Butter in your cooking. Just
enough to cover the bottom of the pan very
lightly. Foods don’t come to the table
groaning with the fat they've absorbed.
But they do come with all the flavour,
nutrition and downright appetite appeal
that only pure dairy butter can give them.
Look, to show you what I mean, get the
little woman to buy some Clarified Butter
(it's also sold as Ghee or Butter-Oil, by the
way) and nip into the kitchen and try your
hand at this recipe. I’m willing to bet you’ll
be won over to Clarified Butter for life."
Whiting au Beurre
4 fillets of whiting
$ teaspoon salt □ Little
freshly ground black pepper □ 1 oz.
! eggs, beaten □ 2 oz. Clarified Butter
Method: Wipe fish and season with salt and
freshly ground pepper. Sprinkle with a little lemon
juice, dip fillets in flour and then In beaten egg.
Melt Clarified Butter, place fish in pan and cook
approximately 4 minutes. Then turn and cook a
further 4 minutes until golden brown. Serve
immediately, garnished with parsley and
wedges of lemon.
Yields 4 entree serves
2 Main Course serves
Clarified Butter may be purchased at all the best
food stores. If you have difficulty in obtaining it or
would like further information and recipes, write to
The Director, Dairy Food Services, Australian Dairy
Produce Board, 406 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
BUTTER—the health food
only nature can provide.
A Ih
NATURE B FINEST
LETTERS
Australia's "presence," where?
Some of the reasoning of “A Military
Correspondent” (8., Oct. 7) is difficult
to follow and his statements hardly in
accordance with the facts. The Com-
monwealth Strategic Force was never
intended to support American adven-
tures, as such, on the Asian mainland;
nor was it constituted to back up other
military commitments entered into by its
component nations, independently and
for separate reasons. TTie Force was
there to protect Commonwealth in-
terests and to provide stability in the
area, both of which tasks it has executed
admirably.
It might be relevant to recall here
that Britain’s military successes in
South-East Asia since 1945 offer the
only two occasions in which communist
and other similarly inspired insurgency
has been defeated. (Korea was neither
an insurgency nor a victory.)
Apart from the appalling lack of
morality in arguing the maintenance
of the Australian presence in Vietnam
on the grounds of its training value, the
suggestion might be more useful if our
troops were fighting on the other side.
There they might learn more about the
conduct of a guerilla war or an in-
surgency (if this is what is desired)
than from the Americans. The latter,
even now, do not seem to understand
the nature of the war in which they are
engaged. With their propensity for de-
clining to learn from other people, par-
ticularly the Limeys, they are repeating
every mistake made by the French and
adding a few of their own.
They deploy battalions about the
countryside in spectacular helicopter
operations in pursuit of a located or
suspected enemy force. On the ground,
the troops search their sectors and, after
a few days, withdraw. Victor Charlie is
well aware of this and, warned by the
helicopters, he speedily determines the
general pattern of the deployment, side-
steps, and goes to ground.
Your correspondent goes on to asso-
ciate the American alliance with the
presence of our troops in Vietnam.
Our troops are not in Vietnam in the
terms of or at the call of any alliance.
They are there for one reason only—
as a form of insurance policy. We are
contributing now to gain merit in the
eyes of the Americans and in order, one
supposes, gently to blackmail them into
maintaining a future presence in South-
East Asia. It is likely, however, that
we could achieve the very reverse effect.
Our moral support may encourage the
Americans and prolong the war. (Our
military effect is of no consequence,
of course, outside Phuoc Tuy.) The
Americans would get out of Vietnam
tomorrow if they only knew how.
We may be assured that the longer
the Americans stay in Vietnam the
graver the risk that the mighty U.S.A.
is going to be humbled by a few million
half-starved peasants and that when, in
the course of God’s mercy, they do
finally disengage, they will vow never
to return to the Asian mainland; never.
Having made our gesture and received
an avuncular pat on the head, we Aus-
tralians should now use every possible
means to end the war and help the
Americans get off the hook—and, in
passing, try to save their face.
Our presence in Vietnam “limits our
political initiatives” far more than it
would in Malaysia or Singapore. There,
we would be present only as the result
of a clear-cut political agreement or
understanding between sovereign, inde-
pendent, and legitimate States and
would have far more room in which to
manoeuvre. The objection of your
correspondent to our filling the spaces
left by the British seems to be based
on the argument that filling spaces is
in itself a bad thing. Why? It hardly
matters anyway, because we are com-
mitted just as long as a single infantry-
man lives in Terendak.
Your correspondent is to be supported
wholeheartedly in some of his other
ideas—training cadres in Malaysia and
Singapore, the swopping of postings,
more language training for Australian
troops, and closer consultation with
Indonesia, Thailand, and the Philip-
pines. His last paragraph is sensible
enough but seems to argue for our
presence in Malaysia rather than in
Vietnam, a course thoroughly to be
recommended.
Peter Carafe
Turner, A.C.T.
Unless Australia manufactures her own
aircraft—Mirage 111 fighters, Jaguar
fighter-bombers, and Buccaneer strike-
recce-bombers— with Centurion tanks,
and builds up a logistical support com-
plex capable of maintaining an expedi-
tionary force, everybody is carrying on
like a ratbag.
With the withdrawal of the British,
an Australian expeditionary force of
any size is physically and mentally
incompatible with any other regional
force. Therefore the Australian force
must be self-contained and comparable
punch-wise with the United States
Marine Corps, but land-based.
Because Australia is a small country
with limited finance for defence, her
forces must be equipped with general-
purpose weapons capable of sustaining
her in a war of attrition, such as the
U.S. Marines’ successful defence of
Guadalcanal.
What this Government has done is
to make Australia’s defence forces an
appendage of America’s by the wasteful
purchase of sophisticated weapons, such
as the Adams Class anti-aircraft missile
(6000-ton) cruisers, when locally built


2000 - ton 3.7 armed anti - aircraft
destroyers would be more useful.
The Fill was ordered, it must be
assumed, by the same person who, for
the same reasons, ordered the Beaufort
in November, 1939—the destruction,
by financial starvation, of an inde-
pendent, tactical RAAF.
Harry Barrett
Flinders Island, Tas.
DLP watchdogs
The article on recent events in the
Senate (8., Oct. 14) claimed the mid-
session rejection of the post office
regulations as a “scalp” for Opposition
Members in the Senate.
I was the first to make any public
protest about the proposed increases
and it was only some days later the
ALP Caucus said that it would oppose
the increases. Again, the DLP was the
first to propose the recalling of the
Senate if the Government attempted
to introduce the increases by regulation
during the recess period. Because of
its position as the official Opposition,
the ALP moved the actual resolution
relating to this. Had they not moved
such a resolution the DLP would have
done so. And, because of the even
balance of.numbers in the Senate, the
three defeats suffered by the Govern-
ment on this matter would not have
been possible without the votes cast by
the DLP.
Any kudos gained, by the ALP on the
postal opposition must surely have been
tarnished by their walk-out when the
charges came before the Senate as part
of the Budget; also, by the ALP’s
opposition to the DLP motion for the
withdrawal and redrafting of the Budget
so as to provide for increases in pen-
sions and the deletion of proposed
increased postal charges.
The second misleading comment in
the article concerned the DLP attitude
to VIP aircraft. Eighteen months ago I
first sought information on the opera-
tions of the VIP fleet. The information
provided then was unsatisfactory.
Neither DLP Senator desires to use
VIP aircraft. Indeed, Senator McManus
elects to travel by train between Mel-
bourne and Canberra.
We do not oppose the VIP aircraft
because we are not allowed to use them
(as claimed by your correspondent),
but, rather, because we believe that the
Government has expanded the fleet in
numbers and size out of all proportion
to its proper function. We believe that
the Government should provide a
break-up of the costs involved in the
operation of the fleet, and we object
strongly to the misuse of VIP aircraft,
e.g., the flight from Melbourne to Perth
by Mr. Calwell in November, 1965, and
the provision of free places in that air-
craft for the transport of ALP officials
to an ALP Conference.
The DLP has noted that if all VIP
aircraft on order were fitted with the
normal commercial aircraft seating
arrangements, there would be sufficient
room for the transport of almost the
entire National Parliament 184 per-
sons. This illustrates the extravagant
approach of the Government to VIP
aircraft, and the DLP cannot counten-
ance this, especially when the legitimate
needs of the age pensioner were ignored
in the August Budget.
The successful move to table VIP
flight papers might never have eventu-
ated had not Senator Murphy been
prompted (by someone outside his
own Party) to move the amendment
to the immediate motion before the
Senate. Had the amendment not been
moved at that stage, Senator Henty’s
motion to take note of the statement
would have been carried on the voices
and Senator Murphy’s other motion
relating to the tabling of documents
would never have been heard of because
following that debate there would have
been a resumption of Government
business. So much for the comment
“full credit must go to Lionel Murphy.”
Someone with a longer and more
astute knowledge of parliamentary pro-
cedure should be given the credit.
Senator Murphy would, I am sure,
acknowledge the truth of the fore-
going.
Senator V. C. Gair
Brisbane, Qld.
Art, artists, and historians
I think the review article (8., Oct.
7) by Professor Smith on Elwyn Lynn’s
essay on Nolan, subtitled “Myth and
Imagery,” disturbing, not because of
the impatient dismissal of Lynn's views
and their replacement by quite conten-
tious and even weird ones, but because
Smith’s attitude is symptomatic of
what’s happening with the mushroom-
ing of art historians.
There is a growing dichotomy be-
tween, on one hand, the connoisseur,
art-lover, collector, and patron (gener-
ally treated as naive enthusiasts by the
historian) and, on the other, the art his-
torian, who is prone to replace the
language of enthusiasm with that of
historical research (of course the his-
torian is eventually in difficulties when
he has to do some evaluative discrimina-
tion himself). If Lynn is an impres-
sionist, evocative critic, then maybe this
is as close as we can get to the life-
spirit of a work of art, that very art
that might have to be rescued from
the dead hand of history.
This has led Professor Smith to treat
Lynn’s essay as a historical mono-
graph, which it clearly is not, and there
is surely more than one way to discuss
art.
What also worries one is that as
head of the Power Institute of Contem-
porary Art, Professor Smith is, accord-
ing to the terms of the bequest, sup-
posed to be concerned with the liaison
between his department and those Aus-
tralians whose interest in art is not
necessarily historical. His approach to
the Lynn essay shows little sympathy
with those who are interested in art
in this way and in the latest theories
of it.
His article is too long to be treated
in detail, but I should like to point out
the following: Smith doesn’t understand
what Lynn says about landscape and
feeling; reads too much into Lynn’s
references to Pollock, sets unrealistic
tasks (he wants a thesis on the trans-
formation of image to myth, no less);
too often it is hard to tell whether
Smith’s theories are an elaboration of
or an alternative to Lynn’s.
For one I’m not convinced at all
about Smith’s determination to play
down Nolan’s early abstracts; he
neglects to say much on Lynn’s new
work on the later painting and the
cohesion he finds. Lynn’s work is
about paintings; true there is not much
about Nolan or about how Nolan’s
mind works (there’s not much on the
minds of Bacon, William Scott, Pollock,
and so on in works devoted to those
artists), but for the first time there is
a connected account of his whole
development.
If Lynn was not able to see all the
verbal and pictorial evidence available,
reflect on this: at one stage last month
there were over 250 works ranging from
1937 to 1966 on show; I hope Professor
Smith does not apply his rule too
strictly to future Nolan historians or
commentators.
Richard Meyer
Woollahra, N.S.W.
The Senate elections
Alan Reid’s comforting assessment of
the ALP’s by-election victory in Capri-
cornia (8., Oct. 7) ignores the signifi-
cance of the decline in support for
the DLP. In truth, the beginning of
the end for the DLP was accelerated by
Capricornia, after Corio, and the sup-
port previously enjoyed by the DLP is
going largely back to the ALP, from
whence it came in 1955.
Mr. Whitlam’s own personal image is
doubtless responsible for this—conceal-
ing the ALP’s true, unappealing radi-
calism and schisms. It is a return to
popularity for the ALP—based on a
political fraud made easy by the elec-
torate’s eagerness to grab any plausible
alternative to the Liberals.
Without continuing DLP support, the
Liberals are very vulnerable, particu-
larly in the Senate. After the forthcom-
ing Senate elections (which, if trends
continue, could give the ALP the Upper
House on a platter), a snap House of
Representatives election will become a
probability.
Still entirely unfit to govern, the
ALP Federal Executive is on the
threshold of power —and Mr. Whitlam’s
glossy, tempting image is responsible.
Culpable are the Liberals, whose years
and years of incompetence, arrogance,
and laziness have bred public contempt
and desperation.
J. F. Davies
State Secretary, Australian
Republican Party
Melbourne, Vic.


GO
ON
STRIKE
TWO
Next time you're in the other fellow's office,
strike two keys simultaneously on one of his
IBM electric typewriters with the amazing type
ball. No clash ! (A unique stroke storage system
eliminates the clash, eliminates time-wasting
errors. The unique type ball replaces keys, so
there's nothing to jam). If he hasn't got any IBM
electric typewriters, you're in luck. Get some
yourself, and get ahead of him in office costing.
You see, it's a fact that an IBM Electric typewriter
can enable your typist to get through up to 20%
more work in the same time. The type ball moves
faster than keys. Our precision-built keyboard is
feather-light. Typists save energy.
Your letters will look a million dollars. The prestige
valueoflßM beautiful type
faces is incalculable. Sure,
you pay more for IBM.
IBM/72
£
.
Ml
Iggjr
15508
18M81.107


(P
M
W A
o§\s^
V
A
foryour
particular
pleasure
