

The Bulletin
SEPTEMBER 30, 1967
j fsj p Rwpy p-* 1 " A USTftA! "i'A \ kj/*** IA L *T , S et <cl
crisis n^"^
PHOTOGRAPH BY NEVIL WALLER
listered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 25c, New Guinea 32c, Singapore 51.25, Malaysia $1.25.


%
■IMMI
is j
Wimm
...
l\v\*\s\.Yv*
stcly.
your needs - commercial or
industrial. The clear span sys-
tem (up to 200 ft.) gives abso-
lute flexibility, utilises every
fool of enclosed space.
If you want a building
unmatched in style and
performance contact
Stran-Steei today. The
complete Stran-Steei
service includes de-
sign, construction
and FINANCE.
Some of the major Australian companies that have selected the Stran-Steel system are: AUSTRALIAN MOTOR INDUSTRIES, NEW HOLLAND,
AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, 1.C.1.A.N.Z., MOULDED PRODUCTS, IPEC TRANSPORT, FORD MOTOR COMPANY.
Please forward full colour brochures on the following Stran-Steel buildings.
| | Retail |~] Manufacturing Q] Recreational Q Warehousing
I am interested in a building ft. x ft.
Name
Company
Address
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA UNDER LICENCE BY
Stran-Sfeel
THE TO BUILD
A DIVISION OF INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING LIMITED
Faigh Street, Springvale, Victoria.
Phone 546 0233. P.O. Box 83, Springvale.
Consult Pink Pages for Local Builder/Dealer under Building—Prefabricated.


£*g«* . '
: r V,
,:>V
i
&
Sit?
; j;? :
;
am
.#•
#
*#*•
' sr, \:f
i k’, •*
.
. ■*i
ni-il
. ■ -5
■sK*>
W:..-
u s ; ■ ;^*V
:.'i3»i.
W AH*
W *# vm TM. 7m ***** ***...••**# v.S» w **S **«* *sSfc SWK.
Your comfort comes first at Menzies. It’s one of
the world’s finest hotels. It has luxurious rooms
and suites. The ultimate in international cuisine.
And the most personalised service.
MENZIES
14 Carrington Street, Sydney. Telephone 2-0232
For immediate reservations contact: MELBOURNE - SAVOY PLAZA • BRISBANE - LENNONS BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA - LENNONS TOOWOOMBA • ADELAIDE - HOTEL AUSTRALIA • HOBART - WREST POINT RIVIERA
MZI/52.102g
The Bulletin
ESTABLISHED 1880
TEACHERS—A crisis
in esteem 26
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 40
AUSTRALIA 21
BOOKS 69
BUSINESS & FINANCE . . 45
COLOR PORTFOLIOS
Roselands: always something
on Sundays 14
Living is an Art 66
COLUMNS
Batman’s Melbourne 5
On the Margin by Ross
Campbell 11
One More Week 17
The Economy by Michael •
Baume 18
As I See It by Alan Reid .. 20
The Croesus Touch 48
Speculator’s Diary 49
Cellarmaster 73
LETTERS 75
OVERSEAS 35
SPECIAL FEATURES .. 30-34
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney 2001—Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne 3000 Newspaper House,
Collins Street. Phone: 63-3341.
VOL. 89.
No. 4569.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1967


She’ll send you-
******
m
mm
m*r
in the most delightful way.
This lady knows what she’s doing.
She is a Travel Agent. She has
travelled extensively.
She knows Lufthansa's world-wide
routes and stop-over cities as well
as we do. In some respects even
better because she takes a more
romantic view of our stop-over
cities.
She’ll suggest many unusual and
heart-warming things for you to do
and see en route.
Another thing the lady has is her
confidence in the thoroughness of
Lufthansa’s air crews and the
friendly in-flight hospitality of our
hostesses.
So let the lady send you. Lufthansa
is one of the delightful ways she
recommends.
© Lufthansa
Offices in Sydney, 25.6751; Melbourne, 63.6131; Brisbane, 2.8579; Adelaide, 51.5239; Auckland, 2.1506. General Sales Agents: TAA.
LUF.5522


If you think
uniforms
can be made
from any old
fabric...
think
again
Most people don't realise how im-
portant the fabric is in uniforms...
until they see one that's been worn
a few times! The most important
part of a uniform is the fabric; and
this is exactly why we created
Cesarella ... the best uniform
fabric. Cesarella is a soft, silky
miracle fabric that is perfect for
today's trend to style and fashion in
uniforms. Easily laundered, drip-
drys overnight to original, lustrous
beauty and it's permanently pleat-
able too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance
offices, Cesarella means more
beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. See the wide range of
colours, just call your uniform
supplier or phone Caesar Fabrics
Ltd., in your state. And do it now!
CjttoteMn
THEFASHION'S THERE, TO STAY
made from
Irorw
I POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
by the makers of Cesarine
BATMAN’S
MELBOURNE
Talking Turkey and
a little Gaelic
about football
THE FINAL STAGES of the Mel-
bourne football season were fraught
with the usual folk scenes and events.
The cheerleader of the Collingwood
outer cheer squad, Charlie Nicholls,
queued for six days and six nights for
his finals tickets, thereby losing his job
with a Newmarket wool store. This
he didn’t mind, but he pointed out
that on every one of those six nights
it rained continuously. Yet immedi-
ately after he had stopped queuing the
weather was lovely again. He presumed
that someone up there didn’t like
queues.
The Premier, Sir Henry Bolte, made
a passionate last-minute appeal for the
Victorian Football League to come to
terms with the TV stations and tele-
cast the grand final live. This is a good
thing for Premiers to do in Victoria.
Then Richmond, after making the
grand final for the first time in 23
years, was beset by awful tragedy.
Neville Crowe, their ace ruckman, was
suspended for four matches for “de-
liberately striking” the Carlton ruck-
man, John Nicholls. Can interstaters
really believe or understand the heart-
rending scenes which took place at
Harrison House on the night of Sep-
tember 12? Neville Crowe himself
broke down and wept at the decision.
Richmond supporters who waited out-
side also broke down and wept. And
again 25 Richmond lovers shouted
threats and abused John Nicholls as he
stood there in the foyer. But for the
presence of three policemen, one feared
that he might be struck again.
Yes, these are stirring times, and in
the midst of all this it was a little
disturbing to read of a football riot
in Turkey. We read that 42 people were
killed at the ground in Turkey’s
biggest-ever Soccer riot. All this took
place on the very day that two Turkish
envoys arrived in Canberra to discuss a
big immigration deal. While we admire
and respect the Turks it might be wise
if all football - loving migrants were
diverted to less football-dangerous cities
like Sydney, Brisbane, Camooweal, and
Mt. Isa.
But wait, we must tell you about
the new western stand at our MCG.
Clearly one of the most exciting events
was whether Messrs. A. V. Jennings
would make it it in time. The public
section of the new stand had to be
finished in time for the final series.
So A. V. Jennings’ workmen were on
the job seven days a week, some doing
over 70 hours. The great crane was
moved from the Arts Centre to the
MCG and all were impressed by this
co-operation between one culture and
another. Furthermore, the Jennings men
were on the job on Saturday afternoon
while the heartiest of blood struggles
were taking place in front of them. But
you will be pleased to hear they worked
and their cultured crane never faltered.
Well, they made it, and rather ahead
of schedule. Now the vast Coliseum
looks tremendous. Its capacity crowd
is about 108,000, but when the Mem-
bers’ section of the stand is completed
it will be 123,000. The stand is some-
thing to see, no pillars to block the
view, and there are cantilever overhangs
of 40 and 50 feet; indeed, quite the
most impressive example of cantilever
construction in Australia.
And there are refinements. One of
the marvels is the beer - reticulation
system. Down below there is a central
coolroom which can hold 30 18-gallon
kegs and 100 dozen cans at a tempera-
ture of 35 degrees. The beer is
pumped through carefully cooled pipes
to the three bars —two on the lower
level and one 40 feet up on the main
deck. Actually there is a similar system
at the Aztec Stadium in Mexico, but
there the football fans receive only
Coca-Cola. Apparently Mexicans can
become sufficiently excited without the
benefit of Foster’s Lager.
The most impressive feature is the
MCG’s wondrous scoreboard. This was
reassembled on high, above the stand,
so that now it is 115 feet above street
level or the height of a ten-storey
building. Now because the scoreboard
is such a long way aloft it has its own
showers and toilets for the scoreboard
workers. Curiously, though, nothing
“Does this mean we could he called
up to serve in Turkey !?!”


ialnnba
GOLDEN RIDGE
LATE PICKING
RIESLING
WINS SILVER MEDAL AT THE BUDAPEST INTERNATIONAL WINE COMPETITION
„ I'U
lyiciea m§
, , A
t<tA'4a
.m
~-4C\ -*«*-
Yalumba Golden Ridge Riesling is a specially
selected wine made from fully ripe Rhine Ries-
ling Grapes. These are picked late from high
vineyards in the Eden Valley-Springton area
where altitude permits the acid to remain high
even as the level of grape sugar increases. Fer-
mented in temperature controlled pressure tanks
to retain the characteristic sweetness and
delicate bouquet. Serve cold.
Enjoy this wine yourself soon available from
better hotels,
'restaurants and
licensed grocers.
4aliimba
WINES
Famous since 1849
Vintaged by: S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, South Australia.
SS 945
has been done to link them with the
beer-reticulation system.
Several weeks back the Manchester
“Guardian” expressed astonishment that
all this was being done at a cricket
ground. It said: “This is all part of
a scheme to increase capacity to
123,000. Cricket rises triumphant from
the ashes of boredom, you think. Actu-
ally the whole plan is to meet the
gladiatorial demands of the American
football they play there in winter. What
price Lord’s for bingo?”
The unfortunate editor, after this
hideous error, sounded almost as tearful
as Neville Crowe. He said he was being
besieged by 25,000 irate citizens of
Kangaroo Valley, Earl’s Court.
So far our gladiatorial palace has
passed all tests. Engineers with gauges
checked the deflection of the cantilever
sections during the worst foot-pounding
moments of the Geelong-Carlton
match and all was well. The seats, too,
have survived. The architect, Stan
Evans, said they were put through the
most frightful tests early in the sea-
son to make sure they were adequate.
It was decided they would be good
enough if they could withstand six
large men jumping on them while
another six pushed from the rear, all
in the one mighty fracas.
Furthermore, they had to allow 18in.
for each seat instead of 15, as in the
old stand. The affluent Melburnian be-
hind has become more ample.
While we have all this excitement
and all these facilities, there’s a group
of citizens who have a sort of Seventh
Day Adventist or Mormon Missionary
feeling about it all. They believe that
the wonderful message of Australian
Rules football should be given to the
world. One step in this direction is to
play the Irish. Our game is clearly
descended from Gaelic football, and
there are remarkable similarities, ex-
cept that they use a round, white ball.
Anyway, Harry Beitzel, ex-umpire,
commentator, PR man, come October
24, is planning to take a team of 22
players to Dublin under the captain-
ship of Ron Barassi. There they will
play the Irish at Gaelic football and
Australian Rules. Also there will be
matches in London.
Your correspondent has a copy of the
rule book of the Gaelic Athletic As-
sociation and it is downright interest-
ing. The Association was formed under
the patronage of the Most Rev. T. W.
Croke, Archbishop of Cashel and
Emly, back in 1884. The book opens
with a tirade against the English for
their “masher habits, their effeminate
follies, their foreign and fantastic sports,
lawn tennis, polo, croquet, and cricket.’’
Then rule 21 in the book says: “Any
member who plays, attends, or helps to
promote Rugby, Soccer, hockey, or
cricket incurs automatic suspension from
membership of the Association.” For
attending, suspension for three months,
playing or promoting, six months, sub-
sequent offence, two years.
Mr. Ron Barassi had just better
watch it, that’s all.


' m
.
Ng« W..
4 *%*♦♦*. vt
**
m %
tssm
i «
Hawker Siddeley builds
T.R.A.C.E. electronic equipment
to look for trouble. Fast.
The HS. Nimrod maritime
reconnaissance jet has
a similar mission.
T.R.A.C.E. pinpoints aircraft system faults. Can make 1,000 checks an hour. It does
this for Alitalia, BOAC, Pan American, the RAF, the Royal Navy and the French Govern-
ment. It’s also on order as important equipment for BEA, Boeing and SASn Important,
too, for the RAF is the HS. Nimrod maritime reconnaissance jet with high-speed dash
capability. It gets there fast, will patrol an area for hours n Hawker Siddeley Group
also erects and equips power stations. Builds diesels, too, from 1-5 bhp to 8/500 bhp.
In fact, its engineering index lists a vast range of essential products and services.
That’s why this is a world-size industrial group earning more than $A2§ million a day.
HAWKER SIDDELEY GROUP 18 ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY: AVIATION: HAWKER DE HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY LIMITED, LIDCOMBE. NEW SOUTH WALES
INDUSTRIAL: HAWKER SIDDELEY BRUSH PROPRIETARY LIMITED. MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service


the big
smoke
very big with sportsmen, countrymen,
businessmen and all men who want
big pipe-smoking pleasure
Men who prefer only the finest pipe tobacco, smoke Amphora. And for
good reason. Tobacco specialists in Holland select the world’s choicest
tobacco leaves for Amphora blends. Each leaf is masterfully mellowed and
blended to make every pipeful of Amphora consistently excellent. And
downright satisfying. So pick a pouch of Amphora . . . it’s Australia’s
leading imported pipe tobacco and there are three blends to suit all tastes.
SINCE 1753
The extra mild Amphora in the brown pouch is
the regular blend. The mild aromatic is in the
blue pouch, while the full aromatic Amphora
comes in the red pouch.
A product of Douwe Egberts Royal Factories, Utrecht, Holland.
2oz.
68c
SA 268
" ■ i S
A greater
challenge than
the Channel
NEW ZEALANDERS CAN be for-
given for smiling amiably when any-
one, especially an antipodean such as
Linda McGill, attempts to break a
Channel-swimming record. They have
a shorter stretch of water which only
two white men have ever swum, and
no woman has conquered.
This is Cook Strait, the turbulent
tunnel of greyish cold water separating
the North and South Islands of New
Zealand. Maoris knew the strait as
Raukawa but the European name is
after Captain Cook and it appears on
the chart of 1770.
The Strait is cradled between the
South Pacific Ocean and the Tasman
Sea and is 14 miles at its narrowest, be-
tween Cape Terawhiti on the south-east
coast of Wellington and Wellington
Heads near the Tory Channel. It’s alive
with treacherous and tricky currents
reaching a velocity of about eight knots
westward and four knots eastward. And
wind forces of up to 150 mph have
been recorded in the vicinity of Welling-
ton.
As the 1920 s ended and the Thread-
bare ’Thirties were about to begin, with
a world-wide frenzy of crazy stunts,
Cook Strait had a brief burst of atten-
tion.
The first attempt to swim it was
made in 1929 by a man named Web-
ster. But he gave up after eight hours in
the water because of the extreme cold.
It was also in 1929 that an experienced
long-distance swimmer, Miss Lily
Copplestone, was taken from the water
after one hour. She was almost frozen.
In 1930, a Miss Mercedes Gleitze
came 12,000 miles from England to
New Zealand to swim Cook Strait.
But she abandoned the idea because
of freak low temperatures and heavy
swells. More than 30 years passed
before, in 1962, the New Zealand
champion breaststroke swimmer Miss
Margaret Sweeney was unsuccessful in
two attempts.
March of the same year saw Bill
Penny, Barrie Devenport and Chris
Billings take off like a trio of porpoises
from Ohau Point north of the' Wel-
lington Heads. Billings dropped out
of the attempt after two hours. Penny
was taken from the water exhausted
three miles from the South Island; and
Devenport, exhausted and suffering from
cramp, was hauled aboard an escort
launch only one and a quarter miles
from his goal.
Throughout that year 27-year-old
Devenport trained to build up his
stamina, and on November 20 the bear-


To feel at home
anywhere
in the U.S.A.
learn one
English word:
('“Sheraton”]
One English word gets you right to the centre of every-
thing exciting in the U.S.A. That’s where Sheraton
Hotels are. Where the action is!
The same word gets you privacy. Seclusion. A pleasant,
comfortable room with everything you need to feel at
home... away from home.
It also stands for good company. There’s a friendly, in-
formal atmosphere in our restaurants, bars, nightclubs.
Good food and drink, too.
Sheraton is also the word for personal attention. Help
with tours, information, interpreters. All kinds of on-
the-spot services...laundry, haircut, airport limousine
.. .anything.
Just as important. Sheraton means economy. Your way
of enjoying what’s best in the U.S.A. without spending
a fortune.
Reserve at your Travel Agent or any Sheraton Reser-
vation Office. In Sydney, call: 35 1955: Melbourne:
639961.
SHERATON HOTELS ©
155 exciting hotels across the U.S.A., Hawaii, Canada
and other overseas countries.
M S 702
Mary M. Revell ... 1965 failure
built Worser Bay Surf Club man took
the plunge again. The water temper-
ature was about 60 degrees. Deven-
port had to battle against a strong tide,
but became the first to swim the Strait
in 11 hours 13 minutes.
Liberally coated with grease, husky
Keith Hancox took the plunge on Feb-
ruary 7, 1964, and, despite a battle with
a strong rip, his was a record-breaking
swim of nine hours and 34 minutes.
In March, 1964, Duncan Bennett,
aged 26, made a gallant effort. He was
in the water for seven hours and had
passed the half-way mark but had to
give up because he had swallowed a
considerable amount of salt water.
Early the following year Keith
Hancox tried to make it a double by
swimming the Strait both ways. He
failed because of a heavy cold which
affected his breathing, and strong
adverse currents in mid-strait.
Then, on March 12, 1965, the 26-
year-old American swimmer Mary Mar-
garet Revell, who had made a career
of swimming most of the long stretches
of water in the world, began her
attempt on Cook Strait in calm water
with a temperature of 50 degrees. She
had several attacks of nausea and was
helped into the escort launch after five
hours and 42 minutes in the water.
Two weeks later she was ready to
have another go. This time she was in
the water for 10 hours and 50 minutes
and was three and a half miles from
the South Island when she stopped
swimming because she feared she could
not make land by nightfall.
In January last year, 16-year-old
Brian Wilson, of Napier, started
stroking strongly from Ohau Point, on
the Wellington side. The cold forced
him to stop after two hours.
Since then the Strait has been left to
the natural fish and shipping. Now,
strapping 21-year-old Margaret Macrae,
of Auckland, says she wants to be the
first woman to swim Cook Strait. Miss
Macrae, who won a bronze medal in
the women’s 220-yard backstroke in
the Jamaica Commonwealth Games,
plans her attempt next summer.
from Bill Niland


—will
.
■ill
S
*
i
X'
4?
Alcan adds ideas to
aluminium-and a
3’2 acre roof protects
a cityfe water.
The water is in a reservoir at Maroubra. It stands
in sand-hills, above Maroubra Bay. And it
serves a million thirsty people. But this water
is filtered first. Then runs straight to the people.
So while it's in the reservoir, it must be
protected. No risk of contamination. But how?
The answer was: roof it.
But how do you build a 3J acre roof ? Over
water. Light enough, yet strong. And thoroughly
protective.
The answer was: aluminium.
And Alcan added ideas: Alcan Building sheet;
curved to create mutiple barrel valuts. Self
supporting. Spans wider (a full eighteen feet
each). So Lightweight Structures Pty. Limited
set about the job (used Alcan's 18 s.w.g. L.T.
Roofing) and 30 million gallons of water was
protected. Made safe for a million people. And
Alcan L.T. Roofing has been used with the
same success on a multitude of industrial buildings.
For further information and the name of your local authorised roofing erector write to
Alcan Australia Limited, Suite 2800, Australia Square, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000. Phone 27 9751.
11l
AI_GAIM '•
AL5287/67


Indoors...
M
outdoors...
Shell Chemicals make life
intolerable for insect pests!
In kitchens and right through homes Shelltox Pest Strips stand
guard for weeks on end to keep flies and other insects under con-
trol. For rubbish dumps, swamps and other insect breeding
grounds, Shell Chemical provide either long term residual insec-
ticides, or non-residual quick ‘knock-down’ insecticides to protect
public health and make life intolerable for insect pests.
There are specialised Shell Chemical pesticides for just about
every major pest problem, and almost certainly there’s one that
can help your business. The list below gives you an idea of the
wide range that Shell Chemical has available.
Whatever your manufacturing interests within the factory, farm
or family Shell Chemical can make things better for you. Just
ring your local Branch.
Insecticides, Fungicides, Weedkillers, Soil Fumigants, Hydrocarbon Solvents,
General Chemicals & Intermediates, Chemical Solvents, Textile Chemicals,
Detergents, Resins, Plastics, Synthetic Rubbers, Polyurethane Chemicals.
Phone: Sydney 29 1226; Melbourne 60 1634; Bris-
bane 31 2795; Adelaide 51 4125; Perth 2i 8631; or write
to Shell Chemical (Australia) Pty.Ltd. in your State.
Shell Chemicals
AG 10
ON THE
MARGIN
Come and revel
in the
glorious facts
BY ROSS CAMPBELL
AUSTRALIANS ARE AMONG the
keenest fact-finders in the business.
Open a newspaper any day and you will
read that the head of a gasket-manu-
facturing firm, or a cultural centre, or a
sub-committee on parking is going over-
seas for a three months’ fact-finding
tour. Facts, for Australian purposes, are
always situated overseas, and it takes
three months to find them.
If a finder is away for less than three
months, it hardly seems worth the fare.
Also, the committee of the Fact-
Finders’ Association may discipline him
for cutting the standard time schedule.
On the other hand, if a finder stays
away more than three months, ill-
disposed persons may hint that he is
looking for something other than facts.
One of the rules laid down by the
Fact-Finders’ Association is that finders
should not be accompanied by their
wives. It has been proved by experience
that wives have an inhibiting effect on
these tours, as they are reluctant to face
facts. A case in point was a department
store executive who took his wife with
him on a fact-finding tour of the Far
East. He had to pass up the opportunity
of what promised to be an interesting
fact in Hong Kong, and several more
in Tokyo. On his return he was heard
to say that he could have found more
facts by staying in Sydney—a heretical
remark that caused resentment among
other finders. However, the problem
does not arise often, as the bodies which
authorise such tours usually meet the
expenses of the finder only, not his
relations.
The first step toward a successful
fact-finding tour is to get some organis-
ation to pay for it. Say you are the


o
o
v->
Q
S 3
Internationally speaking
STATESMAN
PAN ATE LL AS
please
Statesman, a superior cigar, mildest on the
international scene. Available in Panatella,
Commodore Panatella and other preferred
shapes. Statesman, the appropriate cigar . . .
internationally speaking.
V 529
60 cents
50 cents
chairman of a board controlling gar-
bage disposal. During a meeting, you
should throw your hands up in despair
and say: “Gentlemen, we can’t make
any progress because we just don’t know
the facts. I suggest that it would be
advisable for me to go overseas on a
three months’ fact-finding tour.”
The next stage is planning an itin-
erary. For this purpose, it is well to
know something about factual geog-
raphy. Most facts are in the northern
hemisphere. A few enterprising finders
have located fascinating facts in South
America, especially in Rio de Janeiro
at carnival time; but it is hard to fit
South America into the usual three-
months’ tour. The biggest fact-finding
centres are, of course, London and
New York. Every tour must include
these two cities. But it is not advisable
to visit them in July or August, as they
are hot and many useful sources of
facts are away on holidays.
A popular procedure is to call at
minor factual centres on the way to the
main destinations. San Francisco, Las
Vegas-, Mexico City, and Acapulco can
all supply worthwhile facts to those who
know where to find them. The best
seasons for making tours in Europe are
spring and early summer; though good
facts may be found in winter at the
mountain resorts of France and Switz-
erland. On the way back to Australia,
if time permits, a few days in the more
matter-of-fact cities of the Far East can
be rewarding.
All this is written on hearsay, as I am
one of the few Australians of my age
who have never been sent on a fact-
finding tour. I have not even been
asked to go overseas to study trends.
It is my misfortune to work in a de-
partment of journalism where facts are
not considered essential.
However, I did once go on a trip that
had certain features of a fact-finding
tour —that is to say it was free and it
was enjoyable. It was an eight-day visit
to California laid on by Qantas when
they began their jet service there. Dur-
ing this jaunt I could not help finding
a few facts. Among them were:
In San Francisco you could buy post-
cards of Alcatraz captioned: “Wish you
were here.” The journalists there drank
a mixture of coffee and Irish whisky.
The restaurants were so dark that cus-
tomers brought electric torches to look
for their food. The prettiest girls in
Los Angeles were the ticket-sellers in
Disneyland. A man told me they had
a new drug in California that combined
the effects of an aphrodisiac and a tran-
quilliser—it made you chase girls, but
you didn’t care whether you caught
them or not. The Wee Kirk o’ the
Heather wedding chapel in Las Vegas
had the slogan: “The best costs no
more.” You could get a severe hang-
over by drinking rye whisky which the
advertisements said was “Mellow as a
sunny morning.”
After spending eight days finding
these facts I came home tired. That
is one thing to remember before under-
taking your three months’ fact-finding
tour you need stamina.


Independence
Day...
Dining out makes it a real occasion for the
grandchildren. Freedom to do just what
you want this is the independence you
have in your retirement when you have a
regular A.M.P. cheque in the mail.
You are certain of the amount you will
receive for your retirement with an A.M.P.
'Blue Chip 1 plan.
Ask your A.M.P. man to show you how
A.M.P. 'Blue Chip 1 insurance works for you.
: Mi
I
■
\
0*
J*
Everv A M -P- member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding 51,700 million which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
ACCEPT
NOTHING LESS
THAN
"BLUE CHIP"
PROTECTION
A
Z'p inss
ary
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office, Sydney Cove
N 7178


Roselands:
always something
on Sundays
PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE PEARCE.
WHEN GRACE BROS, built the $l2-million shopping
centre of Roselands in the squth-western suburbs of
Sydney, they talked about it becoming a community
centre, a successor to the medieval market-place, for
the 750,000 people within a 20-minute driving radius.
What they could not have suspected was that an
average of 70,000 would turn up there each Sunday
when most shops, except those selling food, are closed.
This may prove that there is always something doing at
Roselands, but it does also suggest that nothing much
happens in Sydney on Sunday.




The Australian National Line
operates one of the most modern
shipping fleets in the world-
totalling 293,377 tons
saw?
' 1
''i •""".
m
§* v .£*»*
LI
? i
You and each of the other
11,800,000 Australians—are share-
holders in the Australian Nation-
al Line, the Commonwealth's
shipping organization.
You own a fleet of 36 ships with a
total deadweight tonnage of 293,377
tons; ships that serve the nation in
all kinds of ways from moving vast
quantities of vital raw materials to
providing first-class holiday travel
and all at the lowest possible cost.
You took delivery, last year, of the
first of a new class of ore carrier, at
the time the largest to be built in
Australia by Australians for Aus-
tralians. She was the 50,000-ton
“Darling River”, constructed at
Whyalla, South Australia. You will,
early in 1970 take delivery of another
ship of this class and within two
years a further five specialist ships
will join your shipping line, already
the largest and most modern in
Australia. You and those other
11,800,000 Australians like you
are the shareholders to whom the
Australian National Line now
reports that:
These are the facts . . .
In less than twelve years A.N.L. has
□ Added 18 new ships to the fleet.
□ Invested $5l million in new
tonnage.
□ Raised its fixed assets to a total
of $B2 million.
□ Paid or provided for more than
$22 million in Income Tax.
□ Paid or provided for more than
$2O million in dividends.
□ Paid $B4 million in wages and
salaries.
Zmr,
THE AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL UNE


ONE MORE
WEEK
The Kelly game
MR. EDWARD KELLY has received
praise in Victoria during the past 12
months. One university lecturer has
suggested a retrial and there is a feel-
ing that he may earn a posthumous
knighthood in the State’s New Year’s
Honors list. But there’s no question that
Ned is doing his bit for his country.
The Victorian Government Tourist
Bureau staged its first Kelly Tour last
week to Beechworth, and the local citi-
zens did their bit by staging a hold-up
of the five coaches with the Kelly gang
in full armor. Later the Beechworth
organiser, the Reverend Bob Hull, ad-
mitted the gang of four under their
helmets were all girls. “Girls are the
only ones who can ride these days,”
he said.
Kelly is helping in other ways. You
can buy Kelly scarves here, and for
the overseas market, Vietnam, U.S.A.,
and Germany, Gilbey’s has launched
Ned Kelly Australian Outlaw Whisky.
On the wrapper you get an excellent
condensed report of the Kelly story
even down to the line where Kelly tells
Sir Redmond Barry he’ll meet him in
the other place.
So far we cannot buy facsimile Kelly
helmets in plastic, but you wait. That
will come.
Getting the jet set
AFTER SIX WEEKS in service, Mr.
Ronald Walker’s business jet is begin-
ning to overcome the traditional Aus-
tralian distrust of the super-opulent.
Visiting Americans have been using the
plane as if it were a taxi while Aus-
tralian businessmen looked on with a
certain cynicism.
Now, however, reserves are breaking
down and the original 70-30 American-
Australian ratio is levelling out to an
even 50-50.
Certainly, the Fan Jet Falcon, with
its speed, smoothness, and quiet, rather
clubby atmosphere, is hard to resist if
one were in a position to think about
it at all. Throughout its narrow length,
there’s an air of unobtrusive comfort:
the ten seats are arranged to make con-
versation as easy as possible, there’s
piped music at the flick of a switch,
and you can order champagne or
freshly percolated coffee from a hostess
who was born in Trinidad and educated
at a French finishing school.
Moments of recreation, however, are
rare aboard the jet. A businessman may
be dictating a memo at one end, some-
body else holding a conference at the
other, and somebody else talking to
New York on the telephone up front.
Mr. Walker was especially proud of
this. “You can talk to anywhere in the
world on it, just as you can on an
ordinary phone.”
He was also amazed at the cavalier
attitude of one of his first customers,
an American businessman who hired
the jet for a week. “I’d say we pretty
well covered the country, then at the
end of the week he decided he’d like
to spend a couple of days at the Mount
Hagen Show in New Guinea just to
relax a bit. We couldn’t get accommo-
dation in Mount Hagen, so we stayed
in another town and took the plane
into Mount Hagen every morning and
back every evening.”
The jet’s rate of hire is $1 a mile,
which, Mr. Walker pointed out, is
cheaper than that taxi if there are ten
of you to split the bill. •
Moving
IT CAME as something of a surprise
to us to realise that the 34-storey State
Office Block in Sydney, opened last
week, houses only 2100 of the State’s
74,000 public servants. By simple arith-
metic, we would need another 36 State
Office Blocks to house the rest of them
in similar splendor, without taking into
account the inevitable increase in num-
bers while those 36 34-storey blocks
were being built.
However, no such thing is in view.
At the moment some of the older offices,
vacated by Treasury, Premier’s Depart-
ment, Public Works. Local Government,
Agriculture, and Mines, are being re-
furbished for new occupants.
The Police Department and the
Department of Transport (now in
rented premises in Martin Place) will
move into the old Premier’s Department
building within a few months. The old
police headquarters in Hunter Street
is soon to be demolished to make way
for a 20-storey building for the
Attorney-General and the Chief Justice.
By the end of 1968 judges and officials
of the Divorce Court will have moved
into the old Public Works and Local
Government offices.
The Divorce Courts move will leave
space in the Old Mint Building for the
Sheriffs office, which is moving from
the Supreme Court building.
Further in the future the Old Mint
Building and the Hyde Park Barracks
are to be preserved as historic buildings,
part of a future Commonwealth-State
development which will rebuild the
court buildings in Macquarie and King
Streets.
Surging forward
BRISBANE can never quite decide
whether it should have a festival or not,
so it has Warana. That might seem
unkind. But the facts are out, and
Warana 1967, from September 30 to
October 7, is going to be just as big
a non-festival as ever.
Warana committee chairman Mr.
Allan J. Campbell is most enthusiastic.
“This year we have tried to get an
outstanding central theme something
that will give Warana extra appeal
. . .” (All eyes upon Mr. Campbell.)
“. . . and we have been very for-
tunate.”
(Pressmen sat with pencils poised.
Was it to be Princess Margaret or Dean
Martin? Six to four was offered against
Stokely Carmichael.)
“We have managed to obtain, direct
from Singapore, the Regimental Band
and Bugles of the King’s Shropshire
Light Infantry and First Battalion,”
said Mr. Campbell. And he didn’t
even smile.
Mr. Campbell is a Warana veteran.
He likes to drift off into thoughts of
past glories ... “I think one of the
greatest ever Warana achievements was
last year when Irish and Scottish pipers
marched together down Queen Street
and didn’t even play out of tune.” He
might be right.
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
For nations which are capable of
exploring space and releasing nuc-
lear energy, the economic control of
the cigarette industry should be a
comparatively minor matter.
Dr. Lester Breslow, Director of
Public Health in California
The British have had a long period
of conservatism; I think they may
take the view that Harold Wilson
is a better Conservative Prime Min-
ister than Edward Heath would be.
—Jeremy Thorpe, leader of the
British Liberal Party.
The fight for equal pay is a sex
war as well as a class war with the
male a predatory and deceitful
aggressor.
Victorian MLC J. W. Galbally
Mr. McMahon’s statements to me
have revealed that he at no time
intended to attack Dr. Everingham’s
religious beliefs.
Harold Holt
We were a long way behind
America in every department—
design, sails, spars, crew, and helms-
manship.
Warwick Hood, designer of Dame Pattie
Highly selective, honors-only insti-
tutions like Oxford and Cambridge
are not suitable for Australian con-
ditions and in some ways are no
longer suitable for Britain.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne
University, Professor Willett


MICHAEL BAUME WRITES OK
THE
ECONOMY
Not all smiles
at the
North West Cape
THERE WERE SMILES and hand-
shakes all round at North West Cape
the weekend before last when the
Prime Minister officially opened the
U.S. Navy’s $7O million VLF radio
base, a key link in its defence network.
But there are not many smiles back in
the Sydney office of the company that
overcame staggering problems to build
it, Concrete Industries (Monier) Ltd.,
and which still stands to lose up to ss£
million on the deal. The company has
lodged millions of dollars of claims
against the U.S. Navy and is seeking
“extraordinary relief” in a situation
that reflects very poorly on the U.S.
Government’s concept of its respon-
sibilities to “friendly” countries.
There can be no doubt that Concrete
Industries has solid grounds for com-
plaint about the way the U.S. Navy,
a foreign organisation operating here
under the good offices of the Aus-
tralian Government (and which, quite
frankly, should have been on its very
best behaviour), has carried on. Its
rejection of materials that have since
been proved to be up to specification
caused massive delays and added costs;
its preference for U.S. products (de-
spite the statement in the legislation
enabling this project to proceed on
Australian soil that maximum prac-
ticable use should be made of Aus-
tralian resources) was another factor in
the cost rises; and its delays in paying
claims that are now being proven
against it are indefensible.
The U.S. Navy rejected every one of
the company’s claims against it; yet the
three claims that have so far been
adjudicated on by the U.S. Armed Ser-
vices Board of Contract Appeals have
gone the company’s way completely
so on disputes over time and mainly so
on money. To a large extent, the Navy's
intransigence has simply lengthened the
time that Concrete Industries has had
to leave huge amounts of cash wrapped
up in this project until all these things
are settled. And time costs a lot of
money.
Look at the time delays the Navy has
created in holding up these claims; one
claim for $1.6 million for “suspect
steel,” rejected by the Navy in June
1966, had been lodged, first of all, in
early 1965. Almost three years after
lodgement it is still to be paid in full,
despite a decision by the ASBCA last
March that the Navy was wrong and
Concrete Industries was right. The
delay in paying it is because the Navy
has to complete its audit of the claim
(its auditors arrived in Australia to
begin their three-week audit at the
beginning of this week, six months after
the judgment).
So it took more than two years to
prove that the Australian steel supplied
to the project was up to specification
and that the U.S. Navy was wrong in
rejecting it. It has taken another six
months before the Navy has begun to
do its local audit, and it will probably
take another couple of months before
the Navy gets around to paying all of
what it should have paid in 1964 (last
week it paid $750,000 “on account”
of the $1.6 million claim). But the U.S.
Government will not pay a cent extra
to Concrete Industries for having held
this claim up for three years, even
though bank rate of interest on this sort
of money would have run over the
$300,000 mark by now. And will the
Navy pay the $50,000 or so in legal
fees (mostly in the U.S.) that the com-
pany has had to pay in order to win
its claim? Certainly not; the company
simply gets what the claim says, and
the U.S. Government has the advan-
tage of having stalled the claim for
three years.
The major claim outstanding, on the
pier, is for 550 days and $2 million
and the hearing ended this month in
Sydney. It will probably be five or six
months before a decision is handed
down.
NOT ONLY WERE these claims
(unpaid, but the U.S. Navy had
not willingly removed the threat of
damages against Concrete Industries
because the contract was completed six
months late; any reductions in the
threat have only been because of tri-
bunal judgments in Concrete Industries’
favor. Yet penalty action against the
company would have been clearly in-
equitable in the circumstances.
It is true that one claim has par-
tially gone against Concrete Industries;
on the radiography claim for a 60-day
extension of the contract time and $1
million, the ASBCA allowed the time
but only about $lOO,OOO of the cash,
leaving it to Concrete Industries to take
action against Bethlehem Steel and its
sub-contractors. For the ASBCA has
ruled that these American suppliers
(insisted on by the Navy) provided
material that was not up to specifica-
tion. It is going to cost Concrete Indus-
tries many thousands of dollars to pur-
sue these claims through the U.S.
courts.
The background to the quite dreadful
situation at North West Cape (outlined
in The Bulletin on June 11 last
year) is that Concrete Industries was
the junior partner with a big U.S,.
contractor, Paul Hardeman Inc., in
this project (the Australian Govern-
ment had demanded Australian par-
ticipation). Hardeman’s went broke,
leaving Concrete Industries (which had
been only a 25 percent partner) to
take over the whole of stage 1 on the
project. This was completed at a cost
of $43 million against the tender price
of $35 million (which Concrete Indus-
tries has already succeeded in getting
adjusted upward by some millions).
But the fact remains that if the Navy
were forced to pay all the remaining
claims against it, it would get the job
for well under the Navy’s original esti-
mate of the cost of the job at $45 mil-
lion a price the Navy was quite
prepared to pay when contracts went
out.
THE ONLY BRIGHT spot for Con-
crete Industries is that any future claims
that the company succeeds with will re-
duce the need for the company’s huge
$5.75m. provision for losses; the first
claim it won did little more than cut
its likely losses down to the size of the
provision. In any event, even if the
U.S. Government has to meet the re-
maining claims, Concrete Industries
will still suffer severe loss (to some
extent due to the Navy’s delays). So
the company has asked the Australian
Government to support a request to the
U.S. Government for “extraordinary re-
lief” in the form of a cash payment to
make up for all the messing around and
losses these “friendly visitors” have
caused. But there is little evidence that
the Australian Government’s attitude to
this affair has progressed much from
last year’s ingenuous remark by the
Defence Minister, Mr. Allen Fairhall,
that this was a “purely commercial”
matter.
No one suggests that the Australian
Government should spring to the
defence of every Australian company
that puts in a damn fool tender for
work for a foreign power. But it should
bring pressure to bear on foreign gov-
ernments that endeavor to avoid their
responsibilities to Australian companies
—particularly in a situation like this
one where the work proceeded under an
Act of Parliament. And every dollar
Concrete Industries gets from the Navy
would help our balance of payments!
Of course the Government would have
to overcome its curious fear of doing
anything that might upset the Ameri-
cans. Is the Concrete Industries affair
to be one of the costs of going all the
way with LBJ?


meet "lom Theobald
Tom Theobald is the head of an important Australian
finance corporation, jointly owned by First National City
Bank and Waltons. FNCB-Waltons.
You know about Waltons. It's Australia's largest retailer of
homewares with 70 stores in three states. Its name and
its business have been built on good value merchandise
and sound credit. One in every four N.S.W. families has
an account with Waltons. In the three Eastern states
the figures are one in six. And for more than 20 years
Waltons has paid shareholders at least a dividend.
What about First National City Bank? It is one of the
world's leading banks. $15 billion in assets. Fleadquarters
in New York. In 61 countries around the globe. F.N.C.B.
originated personal loans back in 1 928 and has now made
13 million individual loans. And they have had 155 years
experience in industrial and commercial lending.
Naturally enough, FNCB-Waltons with their combined
wealth of financial experience are moving into the same
fields. Expanding in consumer credit, equipment finance,
real estate loans. Now we think its time you sized us up.
Checked our credentials. Talk to any broker about us.
Fle'll be delighted and so will we. Or whatever your
interest, write or ring Tom Theobald, Managing Director,
Royal Exchange Building, Sydney. Telephone: 27 9281
FNCB-WALTONS
WAL16AN


AS I SEE IT
Has Whitlam
really changed
the Labor Party?
By ALAN REID
IN THE SPACE of a relatively few
months, Opposition Leader Gough
Whitlam, and his able and dedicated
personal staff, have achieved a remark-
able tour de force. Though his im-
pact upon the voting public must con-
tinue to be guesswork only a
general election can decide this he
has persuaded many of my journalistic
colleagues into the belief that he has
changed significantly the structure and
policies of the Labor Party so that
Labor is now entitled to be considered
as a valid alternative Government.
As I seem to be one of the few out
of step on this, I decided to examine
my situation. Was I the one who was
seeing things wrongly or were my col-
leagues merely being impressed by the
gloss that Whitlam was giving to Labor
policies and situations that are un-
changed, or even more oriented to the
Left Wing?
The yardstick I used was foreign
policy. This Labor’s Left Wing justi-
fiably views as the most important
matter with which Labor has to deal,
particularly during a period of full
employment in which economic con-
ditions, though not perfect (they never
are), are at least tolerable. It is the
most vital of all yardsticks. As the
late President Kennedy pointed out,
mistakes in a nation’s domestic arena
can be corrected. Mistakes in foreign
affairs involve the life or death of a
nation.
As I see it, if there have been changes
in Labor foreign policy during the Whit-
lam regime they are in the direction
which the vote at the last general elec-
tion appeared to indicate was unaccept-
able to most Australians.
Do Australians desire to preserve the
Australian-United States alliance? If
the answer to this is “yes,” the position
has undoubtedly worsened since Whit-
lam took over.
No semantics can change the fact that
the pre-Whitlam Labor policy was to
“dump” the United States in Vietnam
by pulling out Australian troops. But
there was a veneer of respectability to
this proposed action. The Australian
troops would be pulled out by a future
Labor Government only after consulta-
tion with Allies (which included the
United States) and in such a manner
that the wellbeing of Allies and the
safety of their Forces would be studied.
The post-Whitlam policy is that the
troops will be pulled out regardless
unless the United States fulfils three
conditions, conditions which, as the
more honest of Labor spokesmen admit,
would not only be unacceptable to the
United States but impossible to fulfil.
One condition is that the United States
withdraw to enclaves, and fight a purely
defensive, holding war, which would
mean that it could not possibly win and
might condemn it to years of eroding,
futile sacrifice.
Whatever verbal gymnastics Labor
apologists perform, I cannot see this
policy having other than disastrous con-
sequences for the strength of the United
States-Australia alliance. To look for
aid from people you have not only
dumped but crippled by the manner of
your dumping strikes me as the height
of unreasonable optimism.
Do Australians see value in the
United States policy of containment of
Communism in Asia and its support for
the right of small, relatively weak
Asian countries to decide their own
form of Government? If the answer
to that is “yes” the position has again
worsened since Whitlam took over the
Labor Party.
An inevitable outcome of a success-
ful application of Labor’s current Viet-
nam policies would be to strengthen
isolationist forces within the United
States, temporarily silenced but tradit-
ionally strong. Britain, a stabilising
force, has gone from the South-East
Asia. Some of the smaller Asian States
• including Singapore led by Socialist
Lee Kuan Yew did not want
Britain to go. They could see an uneasy
future once it went, and the pressures
they would be exposed to from the
north, whence, says Labor, Australia
has nothing to fear.
How much more uneasy the situation
if the United States decided to retreat
from South-East Asia into the isola-
tionism that once was the ideal (and
probably still is) of so many Americans
whose nation is strong in its own right,
wealthy and virtually self-sufficient, can
afford to be inward-looking.
Has Labor produced any. reassuring
substitute for what basically is the
proposition that Communism should be
allowed to dominate, unchecked, South-
East Asia? Whitlam certainly has not.
Dr. Jim Cairns, Labor, Vic., has gone
the closest.
He seems to believe that the United
States, despite possible resentment over
a future Labor Government’s abandon-
ment of it in South-East Asia proper,
could be persuaded to halt its retreat
on the coastline of Asia and, by sea
and airpower, cordon off Australia
from northern aggression. He may be
right. The United States may be per-
suaded into this. But can anyone be
sure where will a retreat stop, particu-
larly after a defeat? With the isola-
tionist feeling within the United States,
strengthened by an obvious U.S. defeat,
would the retreat halt just off the
Asian coastline, or would the retreat
be to the American mainland?
Whitlam has made, over recent
months, one significant advance which
gives either him or a future Labor
leader the potential to exert a major
influence upon the ALP machine. He
forced a position in which the ALP
machine had for public relationships
purposes to put the four Federal leaders
—Whitlam himself, his deputy, Lance
Barnard, the Senate leader, Senator
Lionel Murphy, and the Senate deputy
leader, Sam Cohen—on to the ALP
Executive and the same four plus the
six State Labor Leaders on to the
ALP Federal Conference, Labor’s
supreme governing and policymaking
bodies. But what he has achieved is
only the potential to secure changes.
Under the present set-up the parlia-
mentary leaders divide almost down the
middle ideologically, which means that
executive and conference have added
to their membership without as yet
changing the balance of power.
But that is the extent of Whitlam’s
advance so far. The rest, as I see it,
is the gloss that he, by verbal ingenuity,
has placed upon a virtually unchanged
ALP structure and on foreign policies
that he does not like himself but has
to defend and justify.
The measure of just how emboldened
the Left Wing has become under his
regime is the signing of the protest to
the Governor of Hong Kong in terms
that were a complete lift from the
Communist Chinese Note of protest to
the Socialist British Government. The
protest solemnly re-echoed the Com-
munist phraseology of the Communist
Chinese Note, including references to
the “Fascist-like” behaviour of British
authorities, who were, as the general
support given by the Hong Kong popu-
lation to the Hong Kong police clearly
showed, dealing with rioters who
had killed children, bombed public
vehicles, and burned men alive.
This petition was signed by five
members of the Victorian ALP Execu-
tive the people who pre-select the
parliamentary candidates in Victoria.
Not only did Whitlam not raise his
voice in reprimand. I watched him,
while the debate was going on in the
Federal Parliament, doing a round of
the Labor benches clearly begging
people like Gordon Bryant, Labor, Vic-
toria (who at least has the merit of
outspokenness and fearfulness), not to
speak.
Maybe Whitlam has transformed the
Labor Party from the Party that went
to the polls last year. Certainly many of
my colleagues think so. But as yet I
cannot see it.


AUSTRALIA
What’s coming out of that
major defence reappraisal
IF THE MILLS OF the Gods grind
slowly, those of government are slower
still. It is six weeks since the British
“withdrawal East of Suez” White Paper
was released, and five weeks since the
Government announced the beginning
of a major reappraisal.
Many dozens of departmental sub-
missions have been prepared and con-
sidered by the Cabinet-Service heads
defence committee at several long meet-
ings. No solid decisions have been made
yet but various reports have trickled
out about the sort of thinking being
done.
An important piece of information,
not yet announced, is that Britain is in
the process of implementing its with-
drawal more quickly than expected.
In particular it is working to a schedule
which will see all its ground troops
withdrawn from Malaysia by December,
1968. In other words the Common-
wealth Strategic Reserve, of which
Britain supplies approximately one half,
will have its guts ripped out next year.
This accelerated British withdrawal
has completely destroyed the arguments
of those within the Australian Govern-
ment who felt that Australia should try
to step in and fill the gap left by
Britain in Malaysia. It simply isn’t pos-
sible, short of an unthinkable with-
drawal from Vietnam.
The developing view is that this
doesn’t matter too much, anyhow, be-
cause the days of. garrison reserves are
past. The Malaysians, so it is being
argued, would be better helped by
expanded aid with training and equip-
ment. Any troop assistance would be
better in the form of direct commit-
ments against Communist insurgents on
the border with Thailand, or in Borneo.
The Strategic Reserve as a garrison
could well be dispensed with. One
idea being floated around is that Aus-
tralia and Malaysia might jointly take
over several Gurkha battalions, sav-
ing these excellent collections of fight-
ing men from the British financial axe.
It is likely to follow from the dis-
bandment of the Commonwealth Strat-
egic Reserve that Australia will have
an extra battalion available for over-
seas service, and it now seems certain
that this will allow the Australian Task
Force in Vietnam to be expanded to a
full Brigade Group, though maybe this
will not occur until well into next
year.
Up for discussion soon will also be
equipment needed for Vietnam. The
problem is becoming quite acute. The
Australian Task Force in Phuoc Tuy
province is most badly lacking in heli-
copter capacity. It has only six small
transport helicopters (UH-lDs) and two
reconnaissance craft serviceable at any
one time. This is barely enough to lift
thirty men. Consequently any airborne
assault of greater than company size
requires a heavy call on American heli-
copter squadrons.
We have no helicopter “gunships” at
all, and these are of quite vital impor-
tance nowadays as escorts for the heli-
copter transports, and extremely useful
in providing firepower support to
ground troops.
Another dire deficiency felt by our
troops in Vietnam is the absence of
heavy - lift helicopters for moving
artillery, bulky supplies, and large
bodies of troops. At Nui Dat the
Americans again fill our gap for the
time being with a fleet of twin rotor
CH-47 Chinooks. These huge machines
perform well when they are in the
air, but that isn’t very often, as their
complex mechanism keeps them in the
servicing bays a good proportion of
the day.
The new Sikorsky CH-53 helicopter
is being talked about as an ideal Aus-
tralian substitute for the loaned
Chinooks. With a speed of 200 mph
and a carrying capacity far larger than
the Caribou transport plane, several of
these craft would greatly add to the
mobility of our Task Force.
The Ml 13 armored personnel carriers
in use in Vietnam are rapidly wearing
out and will soon have to be replaced.
They have proved extraordinarily
adaptable vehicles, being used in a
variety of roles as light tanks,
armored troop transports, mobile mortar
platforms, escort vehicles, gun carriers,
and resupply vehicles. With many more
likely to be ordered in the next two
or three years, it seems quite possible
they will be manufactured here in
future.
The Australian Task Force’s strategy
in the year ahead calls for a great deal
of jungle clearance in order to make
road ambushes difficult, and facilitate
the detection of VC jungle bases. It is
also argued that a program of jungle
clearance in various parts of the prov-
ince will also open up new areas of
agricultural land, which can be given
to refugees and landless tenant farmers
in Phuoc Tuy.
Additional engineer squads with bull-
dozers and other machinery are urgently
needed for this task. High priority is
also given to an improvement in the
housing conditions of Vietnamese troops
in the province. In addition, a compre-
hensive-grain storage system is regarded
as being important, not only to pre-
serve the villagers’ food supplies from
the ravages of weather and vermin
but in order to prevent them getting
into the hands of the Communists. For
these two projects an enlarged civil-
aid budget will be required.
Top: The Army-favored. AH-IG gunship helicopter. The RAAF would prefer the
CH-53 (lower picture) heavylift ' copter —payload 9 tons or 38 troops, 200 mph


Capricornia
Campaign, issues
IT IS MORE than possible that in-
ternational takeover bids for Mt.
Morgan in Queensland will have some
bearing on this Saturday’s by-election
in Capricornia. As Power Corporation
of Canada and Australia’s Peko-
Wallsend fight it out for control of the
mine in the electorate, this has kept the
spotlight on Country Party candidate
Glenister Sheil, Mt. Morgan’s general
manager for 15 years, whose campaign
advertising has stressed development,
storage dams, and fertiliser projects,
with emphasis on his proven qualifica-
tions in mineral exploration, construc-
tion, development, and production.
These are all potent appeals in an
electorate where local development is
a most, if not the most, serious con-
cern. Labor’s leader, Mr. Whitlam,
Labor’s Everingham...
moral and ethical
Liberal’s Rudd...
what people wanted
CP’s Sheil ...
qualifications
recognised and used this early in his
campaigning for Labor candidate Dr.
Everingham, saying, “The issues of
national development and related
economic problems are how the electors
wanted the issue fought.”
The campaigning has deviated from
that tack only once, when the Federal
Treasurer, campaigning for Liberal
candidate Frank Rudd, dropped re-
marks about Dr. Everingham’s non-
religious beliefs. This rebounded when
Mr. Whitlam rang Anglican Bishop
Shearman, of Rockhampton, who
promptly commented, “I respect him
and think he‘s a very moral and ethical
person.”
The Deputy Prime Minister and
Country Party Leader, Mr. McEwen,
was Capricornia’s next big-gun visitor,
leaving no doubt that his Party re-
garded development as the issue, and a
candidate’s beliefs of no consequence.
Catholic Bishop Rush, of Rockhampton,
also issued a statement, saying, “I have
too much respect for the people of
central Queensland to think they need
any help from me to understand the
issues involved in the election,” and,
“To presume I would have a dislike for
any of the candidates is an im-
pertinence.”
Last week the Prime Minister and
Mrs. Holt arrived in Capricornia for a
down-to-earth, meet-the-people bit of
campaigning for Liberal candidate
Frank Rudd. Mr. Holt spoke to gather-
ings of up to 500 people and answered
questions and comments as they came;
even, at length, the expected one of
“You’re selling the country to the
Yanks.” He covered the ground of Gov-
ernment policy thoroughly, with prob-
ably the most telling point that Mr.
Rudd, if elected, would be able to in-
form a Government, which could act
on it, what the people of his electorate
wanted.
But the chances were that all this
effort was still overshadowed by the
fact that Treasurer McMahon had
visited the Emerald area in central
Queensland earlier, and had gone away
with no promises for a developmental
dam at Ngoa. Nor had there been any
faint promise of it in the Budget. Mr.
Holt was not able to promise the elec-
torate more than normal steady pro-
gress under a stable Government.
Mr. Whitlam immediately countered
from the other end of the electorate,
at Gladstone, with such telling blows
as, “Queensland alone of all the States
has never received one cent for any
specific water conservation project. The
other States have received $9OO million
in the past ten years.”
And Mr. Sheil doggedly continued to
point to a proven record of thrust for
more development. If elected, he would
not be too far outside the Government
councils. And the takeover rivalry
between an international company and
an Australian one continued to
strengthen his point: Australia should
develop its north, in all possible ways.
Whether Mr. Sheil, 65, had a chance
to follow Charles Davidson as Capri-
cornia’s second Country Party member
was anyone’s guess. It was less open to
doubt that he could poll well and that
his preferences could swing the elec-
torate to the Liberals. The fourth can-
didate, the DLP’s Mr. Boyle, would
have preferences going for the Liberals,
too, although DLP preferences in Cap-
ricornia have drifted in previous elec-
tions.
Everything pointed to a close result,
unless the main local issue led to an
unnaturally strong swing to Labor,
again anyone’s guess. But with Rock-
hampton’s Port Alma showing signs of
growth in north Queensland, and Aus-
tralian Gulf about to begin oil drilling
offshore, the electors might feel that
greater development was definitely
around the corner.
For Labor, winning Capricornia
would be no more than a colorful
feather in Mr. Whitlam’s cap. For the
Government it could be a grave set-
back, not only in relation to the next
Senate but also, as Mr. Holt pointed
out last week, to the Queensland State-
elections.
Aborigines
Better deal
THE COMMONWEALTH’S PLAN
to have an office of Aboriginal Affairs,
within the PM’s Department, “to pro-
vide the machinery necessary for Com-
monwealth-State consultations,” has
been accompanied by various State
moves to give the Aborigines a hope of
a better deal in Australia.
The Victorian Budget has raised the
annual allocation to the Aborigines’
Welfare Fund to $450,000, an increase
of $lBO,OOO from 1966. The practical
consequences of the increase remain to
be seen. The Government has
announced provision to implement
a scholarship scheme for Aboriginal
children as announced in the 1967
policy speech. This year 220 Abo-
riginal children are receiving financial
assistance to continue their secondary
studies.
The Labor Opposition is ready to
proceed with the Second Reading of an
Aboriginal Affairs Bill but cannot get
the floor of the House.
Labor’s Bill has been influenced
by the Aborigines policy of the Dun-
stan Labor Government in South Aus-
tralia. Deputy Leader Mr. Wilkes pro-
poses the establishment of a Ministry
of Aboriginal Affairs to control and co-
ordinate the various organisations work-
ing in the field at present. He is strongly
critical of the delays in the appoint-
ment of a director and a farm manager
to the Lake Tyers settlement in Gipps-
land, which he describes as “like a
ship without a rudder.”
Before announcing its own plans in
detail the Victorian Cabinet is taking
a keen interest in the recommendations
of the New South Wales State Govern-
ment Joint Committee, which has
requested the winding-up of the Abo-
rigines’ Welfare Board and the ap-
pointment of a co-ordinating Director
of Aboriginal Affairs. , The report


also suggested the establishment of an
Aboriginal Advisory Committee under
a co-ordinating Direcor of Aboriginal
Affairs.
The Joint Committee found that
there were weaknesses in the qualifica-
tions and training of welfare officers,
that Welfare Board members could not
devote enough time to their duties, and
that serious deficiencies existed in Abo-
riginal reserves and Aboriginal housing
generally. It suggested that the N.S.W.
Housing Commission take over housing,
and that child and social welfare of
Aborigines should be taken over by
the relevant Government departments.
It wants the Advisory Committee
to consist of four members elected by
Aborigines in four zones of rural areas
of the State, plus another two members
elected by Aborigines in the metro-
politan area.
Of particular interest to a section of
the Victorian Cabinet, which is not in
favor of the continued existence of
settlements like Lake Tyers, is the
N.S.W. Joint Committee recommenda-
tion that Aborigines should be en-
couraged to leave reserves “where their
isolated existence kept them from be-
coming full members of the com-
munity.” However, the fact is that a
number of Aborigines prefer to live at
least some of the time in permanent
settlements, and others like to know
they are there to come to if the mood
takes them.
The Queensland Government, which
has the most Aborigines under its care,
and the most (almost 20) reserves and
settlements, has just received strong
approval from a conference of 42
delegates from the settlements.
There was said to be hardly any
criticism of Queensland’s Department
of Aboriginal and Island Affairs under
Education Minister Pizzey, in state-
ments released after the conference.
Soviet film festival
All crossed up
THE AUSTRALIAN representatives of
Soviet Export Films are helping to run
the local celebrations for the 50th
Anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolu-
tion. Academy Theatres runs the
Embassy and Palladium Theatres in
Bourke St., Melbourne. The Anniver-
sary celebrations ran into trouble last
week when the Soviet people received
a letter from Mr. Jack Dunphy, the
general manager of the Embassy and
Palladium, which began:
“In the light of information pub-
lished in the general Press, as well
as other material which has come into
our possession, our Board of Dir-
ectors has felt impelled to review its
original decision to lease the Embassy
Theatre for the promotion of Soviet
cultural enterprises.
“In the 1930 s when Jews were being
Position of invading aggressor
The aggressor's relay baton
Anti-Israeli cartoons and captions from a Moscow publication (l.) and one in pro-
vincial Baku (r.) condemned as part of a Soviet campaign of anti-semitism by the
Executive Council of Australian Jewry
persecuted in Germany and debased
through the medium of vile anti-semitic
propaganda disseminated through the
international Nazi Movement, many
responsible institutions and business
houses boycotted German products,
particularly those of a cultural nature.
“My Board of Directors has come to
the reluctant but inescapable con-
clusion that today the Soviet Union
and her East European satellite allies,
with the notable exception of Rumania,
are carrying on in the same anti-
semitic tradition as the Nazis.
“It was the Soviet Union which
armed, incited, and goaded the Arab
States to a ‘Holy War’ designed to
annihilate the State of Israel and carry
on Hitler’s genocidal objectives. When
this failed, the Soviet Union embarked
on a massive campaign calculated to in-
cite anti-semitism and hatred of Jews
in the Soviet Union and in the Western
world. As an indication of this un-
speakable campaign I enclose herewith
reproductions of caricatures appearing
in the Soviet Press . . .”
Word quickly whipped around in
local Party circles that Soviet anti-
semitism was about to emerge as the
number one barrier to the successful
promotion of Anniversary celebrations
and Party emissaries were dispatched
to Jewish community leaders. But
without success, and it was no accident
that a few days later the secretary of
the Australian-Soviet Friendship Society
attacked Academy Theatres.
Secretary Mrs. June Hearn said: “It
is unfortunate that some people have
chosen to make strenuous efforts to
damage the image of the Soviet Union
in its 50th year. But we feel that there
are many Australians anxious to learn
about Soviet life free from political
and emotional prejudice.”
Without making their sources avail-
able some Communist officials linked
the latest protest against anti-semitism
in the Soviet Union with Mr. Isi Leib-
ler, the Chairman of the Public Rela-
tions Committee of the Executive
Council of Australian Jewry. At a pro-
test rally in Sydney on September 7,
Mr. Leibler stated that “the Soviet and
its allies are involved in a world-wide
anti-semitic campaign which is parallel
with similar anti-semitic propaganda
churned out by Neo-Nazi groups in the
West.”
Mr. Leibler declared that “it is the
Soviet Union rather than the Arabs
which is the main enemy of the Jewish
people and the State of Israel.”
Mr. Leibler is at present engaged in
a correspondence battle in the Jewish
Press with communist writer Judah
Waten over Soviet anti-semitism and
over a statement at a recent Australian
Communist Party meeting that “the
destruction of Syrian and Egyptian
air bases was definitely carried out by
British and American bombers.”
Mr. Leibler has also attacked Mr.
Waten for the latter’s letter in the
communist “Tribune” that “actually
the majority of Jews in Australia do
not support Zionist financial appeals.”
Some communist officials are exert-
ing strong pressure on Mr. Waten to
stop him making public statements de-
fending Soviet policies which Aus-
tralian Jewish leaders claim are anti-
semit'ic. They fear that allegations of
Soviet anti-semitism have already cast
a deep shadow over plans to celebrate
the events of 1917. That a commercial
enterprise has got the message and
refused to rent its premises to Soviet
representatives indicates that their fears
are firmly based.
Victorian football
Where's Richmond?
THE YEAR 1967 went down in the
private mythology of Melbourne as the
Year of the Tiger. Richmond, a name
which denotes both an inner industrial
suburb and a football team, with its
colors of black, yellow diagonal stripe,
bare sleeves, and its feline symbolism,
won its first premiership for 24 years.
Captain of the Victorian Football
League’s premier team, the tough and
bow-legged Fred Swift, told what it
meant to him: “This is the greatest day
of my life, something I’ve only dreamed
of and never thought really possible.
To be captain of the League premiers
is the greatest thrill football can pro-
vide.” After his victory speech he


promptly announced his retirement
from city football.
Coach of the Tigers, Tom Hafey, who
is reputed to have once said: “They
should play football for 366 days dur-
ing leap years,” declared: “When the
siren sounded I was close to tears. You
just don’t know what it feels like to
coach a premiership team. I would say
both coaches died a thousand deaths
out there today.”
A cautious man, quietly fanatical
about fitness, who has never been
tempted to try alcohol or tobacco in
place of his addiction to football, Hafey
then began to worry about next year.
If Hafey had had his way the team
would have been out for a training run
on Saturday night.
But human weakness seemed to pre-
vail, and the team and officials spent
part of the night down at a St. Kilda
restaurant trying to inject euphoria
into the latest kit of pop dances. Back
at Richmond the lights went out
around the same time as usual. A
crowd of locals gathered expectantly
outside the Town Hall, waiting for
public celebrations which never came.
Victory fever slowly dissipated as the
night drew on and the heroes failed to
arrive. “Of course, it’s not surprising
these days that they don’t care about
their hometown. Football becomes big
business,” commented one disappointed
Tiger fan as he joined in the general
drift back home.
The clear fact is, though, that for
very few Tiger players is Richmond
their home town. The team, average
height over 6ft. and average weight
more than 13st., was recruited from
north, south, east, and west in Vic-
toria, from the Riverina, and from
Tasmania. The Tigers have used the
Melbourne Cricket Ground as their
home ground for the past couple of
years and some of their team have
never played a match on the Richmond
Oval and probably have never seen the
Richmond Town Hall. For the younger
Tigers, Richmond is just a name in a
street directory.
Sydney
In Spring, sprung
IRONICALLY ON the eve of the
Sydney City Council’s annual Waratah
Spring Festival, celebrations are not in
order at the Town Hall. For this is the
week Sydney will know whether or not
its city area is to be cut in half and its
council “suspended” under proposed
sweeping changes the Askin Govern-
ment has sprung.
The Legislative Council, where five
independents (all former Labor mem-
bers) hold the key, is deciding on the
controversial legislation. Apart from
allegations of mismanagement and un-
warranted expenses the Askin Govern-
ment has done little to explain why it
is sensible for Sydney to be reducing
the size of its city.
At present the city of Sydney is
slightly smaller in area than inner Mel-
bourne and would end up half its size
under the new scheme; but Sydney has
300 miles of road compared with 192 in
Melbourne (which is surrounded by
parks) and covers a far greater resi-
dential area than Melbourne.
The N.S.W. Government is well
aware of the persistent objections of
Sydney businessmen to paying high City
Council rates that go far more toward
welfare works in the dormitory suburbs
than to looking after the city.
There is no doubt these dormitory
suburbs have been helped along very
nicely by the rates city businessmen
pay; for example, residents in Padding-
ton face a more than doubling of their
council rates once their district is taken
out of the city and given to Woollahra,
one of Sydney’s richest councils (which,
by the way, does not exempt pensioners
from rates or provide old-age amenities
like the City Council does.)
Queensland
"Warana"
BRISBANE’S ANNUAL spring festival
began in 1962 with a naming contest
(15,000 entries, winner “Warana,” after
an Aboriginal word for blue skies), and
a shoe-string budget of $20,000. It sets
off this weekend, still with a trivial
budget of only $40,000, compared with
the festival spending of Sydney, Mel-
bourne, or Adelaide, but supported with
a wealth of State-wide enthusiasm.
The Mayor of Suva, Cr. Harvey
Hunt, and his wife are representing Fiji.
The King’s Shropshire Light Infantry
Band is in Brisbane from Singapore.
Mayor Dale E. With, Mayor of Bris-
bane, California, and his wife have
flown to Brisbane specially for the
occasion.
Art competitions are annual events.
So is the King Georges Square fence-
painting competition. The Queensland
Brisbane... Mayor With
Retailers’ Association has instituted a
$lOOO literary competition.
The 1967 Warana also has senior
and junior drama festivals. Nightly
“funarama” sessions are held and then
there are dances, fetes, barbecues, con-
certs of all kinds, public speaking con-
tests, ballroom dancing championships,
a City Hall record hop, skating com-
petitions, marching displays, hikes, floral
displays, historical pageants and a
junk auction.
State Visit
Italian style
SYDNEY’S ITALIAN community,
determined not to be outdone by the
compaesani of Canberra and Mel-
bourne, has been collecting many $ for
Saragat, even Gs for Guiseppe, to pro-
vide a spectacular welcome for their
benign President’s visit this weekend.
About $40,000 has been spent so far
on the event: 10,000 Italians will come
to see President Saragat, 2500 of them
in the Town Hall and the remainder
in the grounds of St. Andrew’s Anglican
Cathedral and Chapter House, where
closed-circuit television will convey the
President’s face to the crowd.
The organising committee of the
Italian Chamber of Commerce has
hired 70 buses, each setting out from
individual town halls of nearly every
municipality, to arrive at the Town
Hall at 3.45 p.m. on Saturday.
Thousands of flags have been issued to
the crowds and 300 large ones will
decorate the route.
About 20,000 posters in red, white,
and green (the Italian colors) will be
hung out of windows of cars with a
welcome message; photographs will
appear in the windows of shops and
department stores, and the Italian flag
will fly from the tops of quay-side
buildings.
Although the cost has been borne by
intramural subscriptions, there are
thrifty hopes that some of it can be
recouped from the Italian Government
later on.
Sydney... Premier Saragat


TY
the permanent bldg.soc.
No need to
tie up
your money
for a
fixed period
to earn at
&
NET P.A. (current rate)
i
INVEST WITH THE
N.S.W.
PERMANENT’
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
There is no fixed period required for you
to earn a secured, safe 6% net p.a.
return. Withdrawals may be made easily in
full, or part, without loss or penalty of
earnings.
Make a sound investment with Australia's
leading permanent building society, with
assets of $40,000,000, and see your money
grow with safety.
No costs or charges • Starts earning from
first day • Earnings paid twice yearly, June
and December.
FREE INVESTMENT PACK GIVES YOU ALL
DETAILS—SEND YOUR COUPON NOW OR
PHONE:
Bondi Junction Branch: 5A Bronte Road. 38-5259
Chatswood Branch: 797 Pacific Highway. 419-2261
P
*
TO: N.S.W. PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD., ■
“Co-operation House," 125 Bathurst Street I
(between Castlereagh and Pitt Streets), Sydney. ■
Phone 61-8721. Please mail me your new-«
investment Pack, without obligation to me.
Name
Address
ausTral i/Ts T^adtng
PERMANENTBUhSINGSOciEn
Vietnam
The task
By PETER SAMUEL
AS THE SUN SET and the crickets
began to chirp among the rubber trees
of the Nui Dat camp, the Australian
Task Force Commander sipped his beer
and talked about the war. Unpreten-
tious, in his early forties, with slightly
receding sandy hair, Brigadier Stuart
Graham spoke quietly.
“There are a lot of reasons for hope-
fulness. We can start by looking at the
attitude of the young people. You
know, once the Communists really got
the young people in. They were the
kings around here. And the people
generally didn’t resist the Communists
much. Those who did were shot.
“In any case, people are basically
pretty conservative. In Phuoc Tuy they
Brigadier Graham... no shortcuts
mostly just want to be able to go out
to their fields and grow their rice, or
go out to sea and fish, and come home
without finding their houses burnt
down. They didn’t like the Commu-
nists when they bullied their way into
power in the villages around here. But
they couldn’t do anything about it.
“When we came in here last year,
we upset the routine again, and for a
while I think they didn’t like it very
much. But the wheel has again turned
and, with our help, the Government has
re-established its authority in most ham-
lets.”
“The biggest difference is that the
young fellows aren’t going for the Viet
Cong any more. Why should they? The
VC have nothing to offer. They can’t
show themselves in the villages any
more since they have been isolated out
in the bush.
“Old Mao, whom they read so dili-
gently, was emphatic that Communists
must be the fish in the sea of the
people. But now, if there are any fish
in the sea around here, it is us. We
are the ones in and around the villages
where the people live.”
What about the village guerillas?
“They are the least of our worries.
There are only about 300 of them, and
up till the elections they had been
behaving very well.”
How would he describe the state of
security established in the province?
“The relative lack of Communist
activity shows that we have established
pretty good security, but at this stage
it is a very fragile security. If we went,
the Communists would just come back
in again, out of the hills. They have a
division out there and the Vietnamese
Government just wouldn’t have anyone
to send in to resist them.
“Our job now is to consolidate. First,
in order to prevent attacks against our
base, we have to make frequent sweeps
into the jungle areas nearby to prevent
the development of forward bases from
which the VC might try to form up
into a unit large enough to attempt to
overrun us.
“Then we have to maintain our bar-
rier of security between the population
and the Communist main forces, deny-
ing them access to rice, recruits, and
intelligence. Of course, we cannot hope
to block them off completely, but we
can make it constantly more difficult
and costly. We’ve put ten miles of wire
and mines across what was one of the
VC’s main communication routes be-
tween his bases and the population,
and put checkpoints on the roads to
pick up his oxcarts.
“This has forced him to make
greater use of ‘Slope 30,’ an area to
our north where he had control over
a series of small and scattered villages
which he could use as staging points.
Now, having got the people of the
area resettled and out of danger, we
are able to operate militarily with
greater ease. Right how we have our
two battalions pushing north to clear
the VC main force out.”
What sort of operations are we likely
to see in the year ahead?
“Already the Communists spend most
of their time trotting backward and
forward with supplies, sending mes-
sengers with pieces of paper. That
suits us. It means they don’t have much
time for military operations. It also
means they have little flexibility or
capacity to react to the unexpected.
“Meanwhile, we’re giving time to the
Vietnamese, and this is what they need
most. Their local administration in
Phuoc Tuy has improved a hundred
percent since we arrived, but it has a
long way to go still. They’ve got to
build up education, health services,
develop the Army and the police, and
create leadership. We shouldn’t be too
pessimistic about this.”
Finally?
“The biggest mistake we can make is
to be over-impatient or over-optimistic.
Impatience, in particular, is one of the
besetting sins in a situation like Viet-
nam. There are no short-cuts to suc-
cess.”


Teachers
-a crisis in esteem
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
THE ADVERTISEMENTS were brisk
and simple. There was no “Come to
Booming Canada, the Winter Play-
ground . . .” stuff among them. With-
out much obtrusion they began to
appear here and there in the news-
papers. One read:
Teach in Alberta,
Canada
The County of St. Paul requires
elementary, secondary, and special
teachers effective September 1,
1967. University Matriculation
certificate plus degree and teacher’s
certification required. Salary range
$5300 to $ll,OOO. Please direct
further inquiries to N. J. Cham-
chuk, Superintendent of Schools,
St. Paul, Alberta, Canada.
The provincial school administrators
in Canada are reported to have hoped
for a trickle of interested inquiries from
teachers who might have been attracted
by the money or the opportunity to
travel. Australia is only one of the
places they have tried, and thq response
elsewhere has not been startling.
The Australian response, however,
has been more than Canada bargained
for. As witness is the following extract
from a circular letter sent out by the
Department of Education, Government
This is the year of the great migration... of Australian teachers to Canada
of the Province of Alberta, dated April
13, 1967, and addressed from Smoky-
Lane, Alberta:
“It is with regret that I am obliged
to utilise this type of circular letter to
respond to your letters of application
or inquiry. The response to the ad-
vertisements which I placed in various
Australian newspapers has been over-
whelming. As a result many would have
to wait several weeks for a personal
letter. I hope that you will understand
and accept my apology for this type of
communication . . .”
The circular added some details about
teaching in Alberta and, to the astonish-
ment of some recipients, said that if
there was no suitable position available
in Alberta the applications would be
forwarded to education superintendents
in other areas which might require
teachers. As the Secretary of the Vic-
torian Secondary Teachers’ Association,
Mr. Brian Conway, suggested: “Such
courtesies are, in turn, a bit overwhelm-
ing for teachers reared in the imper-
sonal, take-it-or-leave-it atmosphere of
most Australian Education Depart-
ments.”
How many applied for Canadian
jobs can only be guessed at. One
official estimates about 1500 from Vic-
toria and New South Wales alone. The
figure seems incredible when measured
against the Canadian insistence on de-
gree and teaching qualification (with
Matriculation Certificate rather ingenu-
ously thrown in). How many have
packed away their chalk and gowns
and gone, or are preparing to go, is
still unknown. One official of a
teachers’ union claimed 700 through-
out Australia. The Employers’ Federa-
tion guessed 350 in Victoria. If the
Education Departments know they are
not telling, though it should be in their
interests to do so. The figures being
thrown around seem steep.
That the response has been over-
whelming in terms of the expectations
of the Canadian education officials
there is no doubt; and if Canada had
looked more closely at Australian indi-
cators it would have known what to
expect. In Victoria, for example, the
number of resignations among second-
ary teachers employed by the State
is constantly and significantly rising. In
1962 the annual loss by resignation of
Classified State Secondary Teachers
for reasons other than marriage was
3.9 percent. By 1966 it had risen to 7
percent, and .1967, the year of the
Canadian migration, is bound to score
a higher figure, possibly rising to 10
percent. If the same kind of loss were


recorded among doctors there would
be a national inquiry.
The Canadian threat apart, many
have been leaving the Education De-
partments to go to other schools. A
letter in the “Secondary Teacher” of
May this year begins: “I have decided
that life is much too short to spend the
best years of it helping to prop up a
decaying State education system, and
I am now on the staff of a private
school . . .”
Others go into private industry. One
of these wrote to his Teachers’ Asso-
ciation: “It is with regret that I wish
to tender my resignation to the VSTA.
This is because last month I left my
teaching position in the Education De-
partment. I did this principally because
of the poor working conditions, lack of
long-term prospects, and because of
lack of sympathy within the schools by
the administration and the Teachers’
Tribunal. I left to take a position in
industry . . .”
Teachers would be no more than
human if they admitted that money
was one of the big attractions leading
them to consider and sometimes take
other jobs, and they would no doubt
be pardoned for their material concerns
by the author of the advertisement
which appeared in a city paper in
April:
Teachers Only monkeys work
for peanuts. Are you looking for
REAL MONEY? Previous sales
experience helpful but not re-
quired. Phone for appointment
26-5984 or 26-4070 Monday or
Tuesday.
But if only monkeys work for pea-
nuts it may just as well be true that
monkeys will work only for peanuts;
teachers are different and need more
sustenance than a copious supply of
peanuts, or lolly, or sugar, or loot, or
whatever happens to be the latest
fashion in guilt-words for money. The
Canadian authorities have impressed
their inquirers with their keen pursuit
of qualifications “In Australia,” a
union official said last week, “the test
question for the Departments of Edu-
cation is: was the applicant for a teach-
ing position still breathing when inter-
viewed?”—with their concern to place
teachers only in positions which suit
their qualifications and abilities, and
the professional courtesy with which
their business is conducted.
The immediate lure of Canada is,
of course, the money. In British
Columbia the secondary teachers nor-
mally hold one of three kinds of cer-
tification and the salary scale for 1967
in District 39, Vancouver, runs (for
Professional Conditional, Professional
Basic, and Professional Advanced Cer-
tificates) :
Years of P.C. P.B. P.A.
experience
0 $5550 $6050 $6550
1 5825 6360 6870
2 6100 6670 7190
3 6375 6980 7510
4 6650 7290 7830
5 6925 7600 8150
6 7200 7910 8470
7 7475 8220 8790
8 7750 8530 9110
9 8025 8840 9430
10 8300 9150 9750
11 8575 9460 10070
12 ' 8850 9770 10390
13 10080 10710
14 11030
To make contrast with Australia it
should be remembered that the con-
version scale is Can. $l.OO equals
$A0.83. The general comparison is best
made with the Victorian salary scale
as given in the Tribunal Award Adjust-
ment of 1967. For men the scale reads:
Class Rate
IV 1 $2540
2 2655
3 2811
4 3081
5 3383
6 3612
7 3821
8 3883
111 1 $4090
2 4246
3 §Ol
4 4506
II 1 $4922
2 5129
I 1 $5545
2 5701
3 5806
Special $6378
As well as the above five classes
there is a special award for temporary
teachers:
Group Rate
A $2499
B 2604
C 2811
D 2964
E 3122
F 3331
G 3487
H 3590
I 3694
J 3799
K 4008
L 4164
M 4317
N 4422
As in Canada, there are a few extra
allowances available for special duties,
and for the Australian figures it is of
importance to note the full qualifica-
tions allowance (normally in Victoria
for Degree plus Diploma of Education)
of $332 p.a. and the part-qualifications
allowance of $146.
Accounting for the conversion rate
and reports of the different costs of
living, it is a reasonable estimate that
base-rate, middle-range, and top-scale
teachers under the Canadian conditions
quoted are from SAISOO to SA3OOO
better paid than ours. In some parts
of Canada, e.g., Quebec Province and
some of the larger cities, the salary
range is more limited than in provinces
such as British Columbia, Alberta, and
Manitoba, which need to offer com-
pensation for the remoteness of some of
their schools. The Canadian educational
authorities do not normally have the
administrative power of Australian
Departments when it comes to staffing
schools in their equivalents to Nhill,
Charters Towers, or Moree.
The Canadian figures are similar to
those of New York City, in which, up
to 1965, the minimum salary for a
registered secondary teacher was $5300,
and the maximum (apart from special
loadings) was $9500. In that year these
ends of the scale were elevated to $6425
and $10,625, respectively. Even allow-
ing for the higher cost of some goods
and most services in the U.S., and for
the exchange rate ($1 U.S. equals 90
cents Aust.), the Australian teacher
suffers in the comparison. In New York
City the average salary for teachers is
about $8800; and in the suburbs of New
York it is estimated at about $10,500.
In relative cash terms the New York
teacher would seem to be at least
SA2OOO better paid than his colleagues
Down Under.
(It is, however, worth noting that
the New York authorities are now de-
manding Masters’ Degrees from their
new regular teachers in secondary
schools and colleges partly to make
teachers prove they arc worthy of their
professional salaries the average
American lawyer, for example, earns no
more than the New York secondary
teacher —and partly to counter the de-
valuation of the baccalaureate. And, of
course, salaries vary significantly from
State to State.)
The improvements in salaries and
conditions in New York are to some
degree the product of the strikes of the
19605. As in Australia, the first
teachers’ strike in New York was
mounted in the present decade but still
some years before ours. The subse-
quent strikes have all violated the
State’s Condon-Wadlin Act, which de-
clares that any public employee who


TEACHERS
strikes shall be dismissed; the teachers
have won many of their points and
have rendered the Act ineffective.
Canada has even more militant
teachers’ organisations. In Alberta Pro-
vince, in which many Australian
teachers are now rooting out their
winter woolies, there have been eight
strikes by teachers in the past 23 years.
Victorians, at least, should feel at home,
but perhaps they would have been more
cautious about their migration if they
had read the words of Hugh A.
Dougherty, an official of the Alberta
Teachers’ Association. According to
the “Christian Science Monitor” Mr.
Dougherty’s explanation for the strikes
is:
“Salary triggered the action initially,
but there was always more to it. Our
teachers are becoming increasingly con-
cerned about teaching loads and non-
teaching duties. And they’re very sensi-
tive about a master-servant relation-
ship. They’ll work their heads off for
a ‘will you’ and rise in wrath against a
‘you will’ ”... Out of the bush and
into the woods, as one might say . . .
The remarks of the Canadian are
echoed in the words of the assistant
president of America’s second biggest
union: “Anyone who really worries
about education ought to kick, prod,
wheedle, and exhort teachers to far
greater militancy.”
Despite the militancy of their leaders,
the Canadian and, in a number of the
larger States, the American teachers
enjoy advantages over the Australian.
In Canada, for example, salary depends
on certification and recognised exper-
ience. Appointments to new positions
are generally made on the basis of
superintendents’ reports, qualifications
for the position, kind of experience, and
years of experience. British Columbia’s
practice is typical in that its 80 or so
school boards advertise all positions not
filled by fully qualified teachers, and
appointments do not become per-
manent until a satisfactory first year
is completed. The teacher is con-
tracted for one year and then may
resign in December and June after
.30 days’ notice.
Mr.' Phillip Creed, who taught in
Canada and is now teaching high school
in Victoria, recently claimed that con-
ditions in Canada were superior to
those in Australia: “Most teachers find
that entering an attendance roll, enter-
ing letter marks, and writing com-
ments on a selected few pupils is all
that is required. Orders, accounts, and
official records are handled either by
school secretaries or the administrative
staff of the school board.
“No teacher ever takes an extra
(period) except in the most extreme
circumstances. Each Board has a system
of supply teachers who are often mar-
ried women teachers prepared to take
classes on odd days or for short periods.
“The teacher has a say in drawing
up a syllabus and in discussing text-
books . . . but the individual does not
have the freedom to choose his own
course or textbook.”
Mr. Creed’s conclusion is that “gen-
erally, then, professional conditions are
much more attractive than they are
here. Advancement through further
study is easily available and is remuner-
ated. Salaries are professionally deter-
mined. In Victoria the teacher is
labelled with a number and takes his
turn; in British Columbia the teacher
is given certification and his destiny
is much more obviously in his own
hands.”
Despite their advantages in the
salaries and conditions they can offer,
both Canadian and East Coast Ameri-
can education officials have made re-
cent claims that they are worried
about the increasing numbers of quali-
fied staff leaving for other jobs. In this
respect their experience mirrors the
Australian situation. The inference may
be drawn that each country presents
its teachers with similar psychological
and sociological problems.
Clearly, many teachers have a deep
and firm resentment against their voca-
tion and the Education Departments
which employ them because they are
denied the full range of professional
rights, privileges, and recognition to
which they aspire. The situation was
different with secondary teachers of an
earlier generation for whom teaching
granted economic security (they did
not expect wealth) and limited but satis-
factory social status. But the modern
qualified secondary teacher has as much
training as a lawyer and engineer and
almost as much as a doctor. He feels
that his work is at least as important
as that of the other professions, but he
cannot get the facts of his new situa-
tion properly assessed.
In Australia the lack of professional
recognition is most evident in teachers’
salary scales. Doctors, lawyers, and
engineers, even dentists, earn more,
frequently a lot more.
In addition to salary there are the
barriers to professional recognition out-
lined in the following letter to “The
Australian” by five State Education De-
partment secondary teachers:
“ . . . What other profession (let us
take medicine and law as examples)
lacks a body of its own constitution for
deciding standards of practice, quali-
fications, and ethics of behaviour?
“Which of the other professions hold
that their primary responsibility is to
the employing institution rather than
to those they serve? . . .
“What other profession allows its
training institutions to remain ex-
clusively in the hands of the employ-
ing body, as are the teachers’ colleges
“What other profession would toler-
ate (or even need to resort to) methods
of recruitment such as we know are
adopted by the Education Department?
Why is it that other professions need
no special bait, such as the teachers’
scholarships or the nasty hook of the
bonding system? . . .
“What professional man could effec-
tively perform his professional duties
crowded into a staff room with 20 or
so of his colleagues? . .
Indicative of the state of mind of
the teachers who wrote this letter is
their situation 18 months later: two
of them had left teaching for other
jobs, one had transferred to a private
school, and, of the remaining two, one
was seriously considering going to
Canada to teach.
Beyond the questions of salary and
employment by Education Departments
are problems of the attitude of the
community at large and certain aspects
of the teaching situation which are
barriers to teachers’ aspirations to full
professional status. For one thing, the
community does not generally hold
teachers, no matter what their qualifica-
tions, in such esteem as it does doctors,
lawyers, and dentists. Money may be
one factor in this, but it is also true
that the attitude of most people to
teachers is rather ambivalent.
Teachers are, of course, usually given
verbal approval “no job is more
important than the training of the
young,” etc. but they are also re-
garded as figures of fun to some extent:
perhaps a bit like “sawbones” were in
the wild west. Furthermore, many people
regard teaching as a pretty soft job no
matter what teachers say the short
hours, the long holidays, the superan-
nuation, the security, etc.
In the nature of the job there are
barriers to professionalism which many
teachers do not or will not recognise.
The patient goes to the doctor because
he wants to be healed (and will even
proudly say that he is “under doctor’s
orders” to follow some course of
action); the client goes to the lawyer
because he seriously wants legal help,
proceedings, or advice; the home-
builder goes to the architect voluntarily
and with some excitement of expecta-
tion. The teacher, however, is often
dealing with those who don’t care much
for his lessons and don’t want any of
his advice. They are not professional
clients in the usual sense of that word.
In addition, as every teacher knows
but few of the educational theorists and
the men who write the manuals, will
admit, teaching can be very tedious
work. So can the prescribing of pills
and the probing of aches, the convey-
ancing of property titles, and the draw-
ing-up of wills, but teaching as it is
generally conducted at present in the
classroom situation has its own special
tedium, and more particularly for those
teachers who have the intellectual’s
kind of concern for their subject. For
the latter the annual coverage of the
same syllabus of studies, no matter how
originally conceived and executed, can
be dull work indeed.
To coin a phrase, “professional
alienation” is perhaps not too strong
a description of what an identifiable
class of intelligent and agitated teachers
feel. University-trained but not fully
professional, independent-minded but
highly supervised, highly articulate but
not always able to identify their deep-
est frustrations; some of them are off
to Canada, for the winter, at least.


Headache cure
Gives long-lasting relief from nervous disorders caused by congestion of the
business communications system.
The best way to get rid of a headache is
to eliminate the underlying cause. The
STC Pentaconta Pushbutton PABX does
just that for businesses suffering from the
strains created by slow, outdated tele-
phony. Pentaconta, the most advanced
business telephone system there is, puts
automation to work in the office, elimi-
nating the bottlenecks that slower systems
produce. Pentaconta also simplifies
switchboard operation, makes a good
impression on people, and helps a busi-
ness achieve a new level of overall
operating efficiency.
Big claims ? But the STC Pentaconta is a
big step forward in telephony. If you are
accustomed to one of the older systems
you’ll be surprised to discover what
advanced features are now available. For
example, in Pentaconta-equipped busi-
nesses it is no longer necessary to call the
operator to transfer a call to another
extension. An outside caller can, in fact,
arrange to be connected to a series of
extensions in sequence. His call will be
automatically re-directed to the operator
each time a conversation is terminated.
There are enough features to fill a book.
Ask us and we'll send you the book the
brochure on the Pentaconta, that is. The
Pentaconta comes in line capacities to
suit all businesses. Ask us to tell you more
about it and what it could do for you.
You've nothing to lose but your head-
ache I Get in touch with Standard
Telephones and Cables Pty. Limited,
252 Botany Road, Alexandria, Sydney.
Phone: 69 0444. Melbourne 44 5161.
Canberra 49 8667.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons
Pty. Ltd., Brisbane 47 4311. S.A.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adel-
aide 51 3731. W.A.: M. J Bateman Pty.
Ltd., Perth 21 6461. TAS.: W. & G.
Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston 31 2511.
Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
TTT
world-wide telecommunications and electronics
ASSOCIATE
@s
K 674


WITH ITS PRESIDENT IN AUSTRALIA THIS WEEK, WE LOOK AT...
The New Italy
THERE IS a freshness about Italy
today—the freshness of a geographical
entity that is at last really turning
itself into a nation, that is at last shar-
ing those achievements of Northern
Europe that evaded it for so long, and
that, because things are happening so
quickly, could become more “modern”
than some of the earlier creations among
highly developed nation States.
Looking back on it, the bombast of
the Mussolini era now looks like the
last hysterical attempt of the old hier-
archical Italy, run by a small privileged
minority, to hold back the mass society
of the 20th century. Its . very
“strengths” were mere expressions of
anxiety about its weaknesses.
It was not in the absurd chauvinism
of the Fascists but in the present
makings of an industrial State that
Italian nationalism is now being-
created. In Mussolini’s Italy, despite
the fanfares of nationalism, Italy was
still a country made up of people who
clung to the habits, speech, and
social relationships of the places they
had been born in places long sepa-
rated by the rugged terrain, the tradi-
tion of city States, and the economic
time-lag between one region and
another. Though some northerners
did move about easily enough, • most
southerners dwelt as if locked away
in their half of the country; migrat-
ing to Sydney seemed easier than find-
ing some other place in their own
country.
In Milan and Rome, and, of course,
in its native Tuscany, the speaking of
Italian was current among the edu-
cated. But to most people elsewhere
it remained a somewhat stilted literary
language, a Sunday-best language, not
the language you really thought in.
In some southern villages, where as
many as 60 percent of the children
failed to attend school, the Italian
language barely existed.
Now, as a result of Italy’s industrial
take-off, the great migration from the
south to Rome, Milan, and Turin has
filled those cities with the accents of
Sicily and Apulia—but it has also
ensured that southerners (and their
children) take to northern manners
and to the Italian language. The whole
population is more mobile. Not only
are the trains full of southerners on
the move—northwards with cracked
fibre suitcases and southwards in nice
Milanese suits to visit relatives. Young
people of the business and professional
classes are no longer content to live
out their lives in the districts they
were born in. More and more they
are drawn to Milan and Rome, which
share between them the magnetic pull
exerted on other countries by Paris or
London.
Thanks in part to this increased
mobility and in part to the break-
through that prosperity and television
bring, Italians have come to share a
common set of manners, a culture, a
language. In the recent words of a
prominent trade unionist: “Television
has done more to unite Italy than
anything in a hundred years.”
The Sicilian migrant’s daughter
from Turin wears slacks on the train
taking her to Palermo for the Easter
holidays unthinkably improper only
a few years ago. Young men in small
towns now seldom give women the old
“undressing” stare that, for tourists,
used to mingle pleasure v\hh alarm;
they no longer reflectively scratch their
genitals in public. They, too, have
joined Europe.
In the very act of working out for
themselves a genuine national matrix,
Italians have grown able to go out
beyond the national boundaries. Italian
literary and academic culture is now
internationally minded and inter-
nationally competent in a way that
puts Britain, for example, to shame.
Scholars,-whose elders twenty or thirty
years ago found it difficult merely to
get from one Italian city to another in
the pursuit of knowledge, now speak
foreign languages and get about the
world with ease. American beat poets
and Polish novelists are discussed and
translated before London has even heard
of them. Italian tourists turn up in
numbers from Greece to Britain. In-
dustrialisation has done what Mazzini
never could made Italy both into
a nation and into a sharer in a Euro-
pean way of life.
Some of this change began in the
incompetently managed world between
the two world wars. Under Mussolini,
unbeknown to itself, Italy was gestating
a new society within the fascist cocoon.
Despite Mussolini’s desire to halt urban
growth because towns were a breeding
ground for revolution, the proportion of
people on the land between 1921 and
1951 fell from 60 to 40 percent of the
total population. But it was the magni-
tude of the final defeat on Italy’s own
home soil that jolted Italians out of
their daydreams and brought them
back to the first principles of the real
material progress that was now within
their grasp.
Italy was in the comfortable position
of catching up. Economically, it is still
absorbing surplus resources. Rural
underemployment still allows a huge
reservoir for growth. In Italy, in con-
trast to Britain, classical methods of
deflation really do seem to get rid of
the flabbiness in the economy and put
it in condition for renewed high growth.
Italy has the highest growth rate in
Western Europe and it is by far the
most successful of the ancient Mediter-
ranean countries in recovering much
of the ground lost, in comparison with
Northern Europe, in the previous three
centuries.
Its extraordinary progress comes
from the growth of an underdeveloped
country which has suddenly found the
recipe for progress and is hampered
neither by the heavy heritage of a
first industrial revolution (like Britain
and Belgium) nor, as yet, by the new
strains of the second. Nevertheless,
some of its peculiar growth produces
peculiar problems. Large-scale Italian
industry, for example, is said to be
using capital in such a labor-saving
way that Italy, which has still not
solved its classic problem of under-
employment, may now be faced with
the ultra-modern American headache
of industries which need too few hands.
Italians themselves are no longer
impressed by their own economic
miracle. They have got used to the
idea of their high growth rate. It no
longer carries with it connotations of
a dawn in which it is bliss to be alive.
In fact, the new Italy is a highly
impatient society. The visitor taking
everything he hears at face value is
apt to assume that the regime is just
about to break down, that reforms are
being deliberately and successfully
frustrated, and that the age-old cynicism
of privilege is still stifling all attempts
to change: complaints, demands, mis-
trust, and anxiety monopolise the sur-
face of discussion. Even the political
adventure of a Centre Left Government
—now that it has confirmed its hold
on power—is beginning to leave people
with the feeling that it is not justify-
ing its claim to existence—the promise
of reform.
One has to scratch beneath this sur-
face to come upon the almost universal
bedrock of optimism. Dissatisfied as


Italians are, the problems are, and
should remain, relatively simple so
long as the economy continues to
boom. They do not even have the
nagging doubts of countries ahead of
them on the road to urban civilisation.
While Italy is still a highly inegali-
tarian society, life is better today, even
for the poor, than it has ever been
before. Italy has risen from rags to
Vespas even in the south, and in most
of the country from Vespas to Fiat
500 s. It is still, by a long chalk, the
poorest country in the Common
Market. But its poverty, compared to,
say, France, is becoming statistical and,
except in the poorest area, is no longer
a glaring gap visible to the most casual
eye.
Socially, Italy is still struggling with
the problems of divorce and the
inequality of women and the very
partial revolt of youth from the age-
old traditions of family supervision.
But it has not yet graduated to wide-
spread juvenile delinquency or to drugs.
Even the reforming of the State
machine, which some feel to be the
biggest single problem Italy faces, is
a matter of turning what was a social
security system and a way of life for
a backward country into an instru-
ment to aid and abet the busily turn-
ing wheels of an industrial world.
Again, Italy has not the problems
of Britain or France, or even Germany,
in accepting a lower status in the
world, for it has only just overcome
its 100-year-old humiliation at having
never quite achieved that status in the
past. On the contrary, the fact that
it is rapidly closing the material gap
with its neighbors is removing what
was one of the major causes of the
old Italy’s foreign frustrations.
Although the problems of finding a
satisfactory position in the new Europe
may engender new troubles, at least
Italy is no longer saddled with the
old.
The general condition of a society
clearing up the past in order to live
effectively with the present is reflected
in the new code of political rules which
is slowly evolving. From a distance,
the crisis of confidence which rocked
Italy and the Milan bourse in 1963
when the first Centre Left Government
was formed must have seemed ludi-
crously exaggerated. For anyone not
haunted by traditional fears, it was as
plain as a pikestaff that the Socialists
had accepted a reformist role inside
the system defined by the previous
Christian Democrat near-monopoly of
power. But to the Right in much of
continental Europe anything socialist
still smacks of fire, brimstone, and the
assault on property; the Conservatives
hastily reached for their numbered
Swiss accounts. It was to some extent
parallel to the attitude of shocked
Tories in Britain when Labor won the
election of 1945. Now the Socialists
are on trial to prove they too can run
affairs, much as the German Social
Democrats in the Grosse Koalition in
Bonn.
One discovery has already been
made: Socialists in power do not mean
red flags in St. Peter’s or the Milan
bourse. This alone is a major step
toward transcending the psychology of
the traditional clash between the
authoritarian Right and a revolutionary
Left. Politically, the Centre Left repre-
sents more than a magic formula for
maintaining a majority in Parliament
for as far ahead as one can see. It
marks the tacit acceptance by both
sides of an evolutionary system. It is
not a complete acceptance. So long
as the Communists remain, or are kept,
outside any conceivable Government
coalition as a semi-revolutionary or
pseudo-revolutionary movement, the
notion of an alternative majority, which
is part and parcel of an evolutionary
system, will not be a normal part of
Italian politics. But the Centre Left is
a major step in that direction.
The major change in Italy in the
past two or three years is the much
reduced resistance to reform. Why is
this so? The inhibiting fear of the
Communists has certainly declined and
the Vatican Council has blown a wind
of change through society. The
managers, who are increasingly influ-
ential, regard change as a prop rather
than a threat to their power. And the
nature of the Centre Left experiment
itself calls for reform. Whatever the
reasons, the superficial immobilism of
the past few years has concealed a
shift of emphasis toward the acceptance
of change.
The Right in Italy seems in fact to
be losing some of its old rigor; it is
becoming more like a Conservative
Party in the British sense than would
have seemed possible not so long ago.
The Christian Democrats seem willing
to take the reins with, or from, the
reformers enough to avoid upsetting
the social applecart and to stay in the
driver’s seat. If the Centre Left really
means this Disraelian prescription—
and me-tooism on the Right is as vital
to evolutionary politics as readiness on
the Left to accept gradualism it will
have really opened up a new era in
Italian politics.
Italy, in short, is on the later stages
of the long road from the agrarian and
oligarchic society and politics of the
19th century to a political system
attuned to an industrial society. The
former divisions between authoritarians
and revolutionaries, typical of the early
stages of the transition from static to
mobile societies, are fading and a more
empirical political game is gradually
developing.
If the Centre Left were to prove im-
potent to meet the revolution of rising
expectations engendered by economic
progress itself, or if prosperity were to
give away to a major slump, the politi-
cal achievement of post-war Italy might
still prove fragile. The ghost of
authoritarianism still haunts thought-
ful Italians. Nevertheless, Italy in 1967
seems above all to be consolidating the
economic leap of the 1950 s and the
political leap of the Centre Left. Pre-
dictably, the process is working out
more slowly than the reformers hoped
and with less than the initial zest. But,
barring major upsets, the context seems
to have been set for years to come.
All in all, Italy’s situation is for
once fairly enviable. This has not hap-
pened to it very often in its much frus-
trated past. Giolitti’s years of power
in the prosperous Edwardian era were
the last period of cautious but still real
reform. But even under Giolitti there
never was a period buoyed up by eco-
nomic growth like the present. There
is still a great deal of poverty and con-
cealed unemployment in Italy. But
many of the poor themselves have never
had it so good. The Macmillan slogan
describes the limitations as well as
strengths of present-day Italy.
Things may become harder when it
is thrust right up against the problems
of affluence already impinging else-
where. But, for the time being, this is
one of the outstanding phases of eco-
nomic advance and potentially of politi-
cal liberalism in Italy’s history. It is in
one of those expansive phases of which
any country would be wise to take ad-
vantage while it can.


One of the 1001
tales of Maxwell’s Plum
By DAVID McNICOLL
I WAS SITTING a few weeks ago
in Maxwell’s Plum, on New York’s
steaming First Avenue. Maxwell’s Plum
is one of those strange “in” places for
way-outs. Part English pub, part
psychedelic nonsense, part restaurant
and wholly lucrative. The tourists and
the itinerants make up the weight
alongside the local revellers, eat out-
size frankfurts, and gaze at the extra-
ordinary and wonderfully clever
“camp” decor of Edwardian lamp-
stands, suspended stuffed rhinos, and
velvet-framed pictures of Commodore
Vanderbilt, while canned music plays
“Up, Up, and Away,” the current top
pop.
New York in July is a very outdoor
place. The buildings throw the heat
back at you until 9 p.m., the air hangs
heavy on the streets, the mini-skirts,
caught against gently perspiring thighs,
get even more mini, and this in turn
brings out more perspiration on the
brows of the youth of the town.
At our table at Maxwell’s, Sally was
the only one with claims to youth
she was 26, which made her an oldie
at Maxwell’s Plum but put her in the
chick class as far as I was concerned.
She was a real New Yorker blase,
blonde, mini-ed, up to date on all the
gossip, well versed in what Suzy had
said in her column that day, loquacious,
surprisingly informed on the stock
markets and pretty disenchanted
about being in New York in summer
instead of in those places where com-
fortably off blonde chicks of 26 usually
are in the New York summer.
As the evening proceeded, we dis-
covered that Sally had two very
unusual skills astrology and back-
gammon. On astrology she blinded us
with science by demonstrating that
because Jupiter was in conflict with
Aries (for instance) I would have a
smooth flight to England the next day.
She exhibited a persuasiveness and an
intensity of belief in the mumbo-jumbo
of astrology which I had never before
encountered in an amateur.
But at backgammon, I discovered,
she was no amateur. She took part in
tournaments, she instructed, she kept
well and truly ahead on the financial
side of the game. I had no idea that
backgammon was so big in America.
I could see that the second girl at
our table had reservations about Sally.
It happened, by wild coincidence, that
she also knew a lot about astrology
and a little about backgammon. She
proceeded, cleverly and gently, to probe
Sally’s astrology knowledge. This mystic
field, with its jargon, was tossed back
and forth across the table for about
half an hour.
Finally, the inquisitor, looking Sally
right in the face, said, “You know, you
really are an expert on astrology.”
“Just as well,” Sally replied, as she
adjusted her vodka and orange juice
with a long, appreciative suck. “It saved
me a lot of money last week.”
“How?” I asked. This leggy blonde
by this stage had me and my male
companion hanging on her every
word.
Sally then proceeded to unfold her
tale. It would have been a natural for
O. Henry or Mark Hellinger even
for de Maupassant. But, as far as I
can gather, her story owed no debt for
its origin. I have no reason to doubt
it.
The week before (Sally told us, mov-
ing as only slim blondes can into a
king-sized hamburger) she had arranged
a backgammon evening at her apart-
ment. It was quite a do. About ten
there, dinner, drinks, then into the
gambling. A balmy night, the moon over
the East River, the slightest breeze
stirring the vines on Sally’s terrace.
About eleven o’clock, the gaming
stopped for supper. Hilarity, gossip,
sandwiches, drink—then someone sug-
gested Sally read the guests’ horo-
scopes. She didn’t need much per-
suading. Out came the pad, her
pencil. She took down names, birth-
days, then had the guests ransack
memory (or make calls to parents) to
ascertain approximate exact times of
birth.
When the material was collated,
Sally read the horoscopes, briefly
into the near past, then told of their
futures. Some of the news was good,
some bad—you know how it goes with
horoscopes. Sally belongs to the “no
punches pulled” school—these can be
uncomfortable seers.
Supper and the astrology ended. Back
to the backgammon. It was a big night
for Sally, as it so often is for a host
or a hostess. Not wanting to win from
their guests, they so often do. Sally
won. Several hundred dollars. By 2 or
3 a.m., when the party ended, the
settling started. Cheques were cashed.
Sally collected a couple of cheques and
about $3OO in cash. She took it to her
bedroom, left it on the dressing-table,
and returned to her guests.
They drifted off gradually, in swirls
of Guerlain and cigars, and left Sally
to her task of cleaning up her apart-
ment. It was 4 a.m. before she
finished the chores and walked wearily
to her bedroom. Better put the money
away, she thought, and went to her
dressing-table. The cheques were there,
the cash was gone.
What do you do? Your guests are
upper bracket, you have known them
all for some time. You can’t call in
police. You can’t phone the guests and
say, “Did you, by chance, happen to
pick up any money which didn’t be-
long to you?” To be blunt, you can’t
do a damn thing about it.
But Sally could.
She remembered the horoscopes. Out
of her wastepaper basket came the notes
she had made at supper. She arranged
them in front of her, then redid her
analyses. This time she looked for
weakness, for a tendency to succumb
to temptation, for someone in financial
straits. It took her time to find it,
but she did. A girl at the party, a
girl who had lost, a girl whose stars
indicated that right at that moment
she could easily have succumbed to a
blinding flash of temptation and taken
something which didn’t belong to her.
Next day Sally phoned the girl. She
seemed ill at ease on the phone. Sally
asked her to come over for a drink.
The girl said she couldn’t. Sally rang
again next day. Same result. Then
a third time. This time she told the
girl she particularly wanted to see her.
Why? asked the girl. Only to have a
chat, said Sally. So the girl agreed
to come for a drink that evening.
She arrived, face drawn. Sally poured
her a scotch and soda. They chatted.
Then Sally excused herself, said she
had to go to the bathroom.
When she came back she faced what
looked like a new girl. Her face was
not drawn any more, she laughed,
quaffed her drink, discussed boyfriends
and what was happening next weekend.
After an hour or so she left. Sally
went into the bedroom and walked to
the dressing-table. She was hardly
surprised, she said, to see her money
loosely tucked under a compact at the
side of the table.


§ljg«ff
. v \
. " ' . ..
' -O-
- ■
V .•'•
mm
wmsm
m
■
m
U i ■
;
a i
Office space by courtesy of Associated Securities Ltd. and Richardson & Wrench Ltd.
We can supply everything and help with the rent
*
So you're about to open a new office. Expand
your existing one. Or just toying with the idea
of modernising. Then save yourself money
and traumas. We're serious.
You see, even our competitors admit we
are the world's largest business equipment
organisation. And that we can supply you
with everything from a simple paper clip to
a bank of Lektriever Automated Records
Retrieval Systems. Correct. But that's not all.
Should you need advice or floor plans on
the actual placing of equipment to ensure
rapid work flow, staff-movement conserva-
tion, minimal distance between work-points
our Time-and-Motion men skilled in
ergonomics are at your service.
Whatever your office set-up—small or mas-
sive, simple or complex you can be certain
of receiving our complete concentration.
But don't take our word for it here. Ask our
clients. Or give us a ring. No obligation.
(*What you'll save in operational costs of
your Remington equipment alone will help
towards your office rent.)
Remington Rand World's Largest Business Equipment Organisation
TYPEWRITERS • ADDING MACHINES • ACCOUNTING MACHINES • CALCULATING MACHINES • ADP EQUIPMENT • OFFICE SYSTEMS • FILING EQUIPMENT • DUPLICATORS • OFFSET PRINTING MACHINES
OFFICE SUPPLIES • POSTAL FRANKING MACHINES . ADDRESSER PRINTERS • LETTER OPENING & SEALING MACHINES • FOLDING & INSERTING MACHINES • COUNTING & IMPRINTING MACHINES
RR525


FORUM
IS COMMUNISM DEAD?
Extracts from an article by ZBIGNIEW BRZESINSKI published in the American "New Leader"
IN INTERNATIONAL politics five
major changes are taking place which,
together, are fundamentally altering the
nature of international relations:
1. The waning ideological conflicts
among the more developed nations.
Since the time of the French Revolution,
conflicts between States have been pro-
foundly emotionalised by mass struggles
induced by a mixture of ideology and
nationalism.
Due to a variety of factors, this con-
dition is waning. First of all, nuclear
weapons have necessitated greater and
greater control. Thus, even the most
bitter ideological hatreds have to be
restrained by commonsense.
Secondly, and equally important, we
are coming to realise more fully that
social change is such an enormously
complex and interrelated process, with
so many variables, that it cannot be
reduced to a few simple ideological
formulas.
Thirdly, Communism, the principal,
and until recently most militant, revo-
lutionary ideology of our day, is dead.
Communism is dead as an ideology in
the sense that it is no longer capable
of mobilising global support. On the
contrary, it is being increasingly frag-
mented by conflicts among constituent
units and parties, and this has con-
tributed to ideological disillusionment
among its members. Communist States,
Communist movements, and Com-
munist subversion are still very im-
portant on the international scene, but
Communist ideology as a vital force
is no longer with us.
Revolutionary movements in different
parts of the world now relate themselves
more specifically to local radical tradi-
tions and try to exploit local opportuni-
ties. The common doctrine and its
alleged universal validity are being
diluted by these adaptations, and the
process is destroying the universal
appeal and global effectiveness of
ideology.
2. The decline of violence among the
more developed nations. Since the early
19th century the international scene
has been dominated by conflicts fought
principally among the more advanced,
and mostly European, nations of the
world. The focus of violence is now
shifting to the Third World. Today,
the conflicts are often between some of
the developed and less developed
nations; and increasingly, instability in
the underdeveloped world is itself the
source of global tension. This is a basic
reversal of the dominant pattern of the
recent past.
The new curbing of violence between
the advanced States is also largely a
result of the nuclear age. It should be
acknowledged that, without the presence
of nuclear weapons, a major war would
probably have erupted in the course of
the past 20 years. Given the range of
differences, the frequent tensions, and
the occasional clashes between the
United States and the Soviet Union, a
war between them would likely have
ensued in almost any other era in
history.
This control is still largely absent in
the case of the less developed States.
Moreover, their ideological passions and
nationalistic feelings have not yet run
full course. Consequently, the propensity
toward total reaction, total commit-
ment, and total violence is still quite
high in the Third World.
3. The end of the supremacy of the
nation-state on the international scene.
This process is far from consummated,
but the trend seems to me irreversible.
It is not only a matter of security inter-
dependence among allied States. It is
also a matter of psychological change.
Throughout history people have ex-
panded their sense of identification. At
the outset men identified with their
families, then with their villages, then
with their towns, then with their sur-
rounding areas and provinces, then
with their nations. Now people are be-
ginning to identify with their continents
and regions. This change has been in-
duced by the necessities of economic
development and of the technological
revolution, by progress in the means of
communication all of which cause
people to identify themselves more and
more with wider, global human in-
terests.
4. The emergence of the United
States as the preponderant world power.
The conventional view is that since
1945 we have seen three basic stages
of international development: U.S.
nuclear monopoly; bipolarity, based on
two homogeneous alliances rigidly con-
fronting each other; and currently poly-
centrism, with many States playing the
international game.
I submit that this is a wrong pers-
pective; in fact, the sequence has been
the opposite. The first postwar era
1945-50 was basically a polycentric
era. The United States was largely dis-
armed. It had a nuclear monopoly, to
be sure, but its nuclear power was
essentially apocalyptic; it could only be
used in circumstances everyone wished
to avoid, hence it was not politically
relevant. In addition to being disarmed,
the United States was just beginning to
become involved in Europe, was hardly
involved in Asia, and there were still
two major empires on the scene, the
French and the British.
It gave way to the era of bipolarity,
of dichotomic confrontation, if you will,
between two alliances one led by the
Soviet Union, the other by the United
States. During this period the Soviet
Union acquired nuclear capacity. Be-
tween 1958-62, under Nikita Khrush-
chev, it misjudged its nuclear strength
and attempted a policy designed to
assert Soviet global supremacy. These
years were dominated by the Soviet
effort to throw the West out of Berlin,
to put missiles in Cuba, and to force
a showdown. However, Khrushchev
discovered in 1962 that the Soviet
Union still had only apocalyptic power.
Its nuclear arsenal was not relevant
when faced with U.S. power.
Thus the United States stared down
Khrushchev in Cuba, protected its
interests in the Dominican Republic
and the Congo, and now is doing the
same in Vietnam. The Soviet Union
did not dare to react even in the area
of its domination —Berlin. Today, the
Soviet Union is in effect a regional
power, concentrating primarily on
Europe and on the growing danger from
China. U.S. power, meanwhile, has
become applicable—with a long-range
delivery system, with the ability to
assert itself through a global reach.
5. The growing fragmentation of the
world. The United States is becoming
a new society, a society no longer
shaped by the impact of the industrial
process on social, economic, and
political life. That impact still shapes
European life: If you look at the
changes in the nature of the Euro-
pean political elite, European prob-
lems of employment or unemployment
or welfare, the efforts to create greater
access to education in Europe—you see
that all of these are manifestations of
the effect of the industrial process on
a formerly rural and traditional
society.
The United States has gone beyond
this era. Its social concerns are mostly
with leisure, physical well-being, auto-
mation, psychic well-being, alienation
of youth (usually from well-to-do
middle-class families). They stem from
a standard of living that has become
relatively stable and high, from a
society that in many respects faces new
questions of purpose and meaning. It is
becoming, in effect, a post-industrial
society where computers and communi-
cations control ways of life to an ever-
greater degree. Europeans are today ex-
periencing the automobile revolution,
which extends physical mobility; Ameri-
cans are undergoing an electronic revo-
lution, which extends their senses and
nervous systems.
This induces new perspectives and
attitudes, and sharpens the differences
between the U.S. and the world.
(From the "New Leader Copyright 1967.)


OVERSEAS
Are the Russians really
escalating in North Vietnam?
AMERICAN BOMBING of North
Vietnam has caused such dislocation
that Hanoi’s survival now depends on
even more Soviet aid, or a settlement
with the United States. This is the
view of East European diplomats who
have paid regular visits to Hanoi. Con-
sequently, while Russia is stepping up
its military aid, it is also pressing the
North Vietnamese leaders to negotiate.
This pressure, though concealed by the
Russians, has developed more strongly
since the Glassboro summit talks be-
tween Mr. Kosygin and President
Johnson.
Secret talks to find the basis for a
settlement have been taking place in a
number of East European capitals, and
the Americans themselves have had ex-
ploratory secret contacts with represen-
tatives of both Hanoi and the South
Vietnam National Liberation Front.
Recent East European visitors to
Hanoi report that the endurance of
the people there is beginning to break
down under the continual bombing.
In spite of Soviet Bloc aid, which has
included $U.5.3000 million worth of
military equipment, the standard of
living has fallen in North Vietnam to
the lowest level since the end of
World War 11. All this has led to
growing dissension within the Com-
munist Party leadership in Hanoi,
which has affected even Ho Chi Minh’s
personal position.
The announcement of increased
Soviet aid to North Vietnam makes
it probable that any discussion of Viet-
nam by the Big Four Foreign Ministers
(from America, Russia, France, and
Britain) at their scheduled meeting
with U Thant over dinner at United
Nations HQ on Tuesday this week will
be inconclusive.
The Soviet Foreign Minister, Mr.
Gromyko, on Saturday rejected a new
proposal made by Mr. Brown for re-
convening the Geneva conference on
Vietnam, of which Britain and Russia
are co-chairmen.
Mr. Gromyko, in effect, also rejected
the U.S. proposals made in the U.N.
by Mr. Goldberg.
Since it is politically impossible for
the Russians to appear not to be giving
Hanoi full support, the Soviet Govern-
ment can make no separate peace
moves, at least in public. Mr. Gromyko
has therefore made it plain that Rus-
sia will oppose any formal discussion
of the Vietnam problem in the United
Nations.
Officially, too, the Soviet Govern-
ment agrees with Hanoi in making
peace in Vietnam conditional not only
on cessation of the American bombing
of the North but also on the with-
drawal of American troops. Neverthe-
less, there are indications that if Ameri-
can policy showed signs of change the
position of Russia and Hanoi would
become more flexible.
The Russian readiness or ability to
get Hanoi to the conference table still
depends primarily on the unconditional
cessation of the American bombing of
the North.
Some diplomatic observers, indeed,
believe that the latest increase in Soviet
aid to Hanoi is meant not only to
prevent any North Vietnamese collapse
but also to strengthen Moscow’s influ-
ence for peace in Hanoi. The increased
aid answers China’s taunts that Russia
is letting the Vietnamese down. At
the same time it relatively diminishes
Peking’s influence in Hanoi, which has
been adamantly against peace.
U.S. defence
McNamara's fight
the decision—on Mr. McNamara’s part
clearly very reluctantly taken to
start building a “thin” anti-ballistic
missile system, tough questions have
suddenly begun to be asked about the
degree to which Mr. McNamara can
any longer be considered master of his
own house.
Two schools of thought have always
existed about Mr. McNamara. One,
largely upheld by liberal columnists
and vigorously encouraged by Kennedy
disciples, sees in him the one strong
man in the present administration. The
other, endorsed to a surprising extent
by those who actually cover the Pen-
tagon, claims to detect in him all the
elements of a weak, vain man, keenly
interested in his own liberal image, but
never prepared in the last resort to re-
sist whatever orders come down from
above.
It would be idle to pretend that this
second school has not gained ground
in the past few weeks. The ABM de-
cision was merely the most recent of
a number of events that have had the
effect of severely denting the whole
McNamara legend.
As long ago as July there took place
the humiliating scene in which, in the
President’s upstairs chintzy sitting-
room, the U.S. Secretary of Defence
was forced to sit down with General
Westmoreland and General Wheeler,
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and deny that there were any
differences between himself and the
Generals on troop levels in Vietnam. A
short while later came the announce-
ment that, after all, there would be a
minimum increase of 45,000 in the
number of U.S. soldiers fighting in Viet-
nam.
One half academic professor and the
other business executive, McNamara
has never claimed to be at home in
the world of politics and it was
probably predictable that with a presi-
dential election coming up this would
be a difficult year for him. Indeed,
he appears to have recognised as much
fairly early on. Last January, having
IN HIS second-floor office in the
Pentagon, looking out across the Poto-
mac River to the dome of the Capitol
and beyond, Mr. Robert McNamara,
U.S. Secretary of Defence, always man-
ages to suggest a man who is the
monarch of all he surveys.
This week, however, in the wake of
McNamara. .. the legend of the master severely dented


GET
ISSUES OF
The Bulletin
An annual
subscription to
The Bulletin costs
only $8.40, postage
included, for
Australian readers.
This represents a
saving of $2
for every 52 issues.
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
C
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS |
Please send me 52 issues of Ihe i
Bulletin. I
Name-.-
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Address .
(BLOCK LETTERS)
0 Renewal 0 New subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque/postal note, for
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTIONS DEPT.,
I Box 4088, G.P.0., SYDNEY, 2001.
> )
Take out
a subscription now
for yourself or a friend.
succeeded in getting the President to
hold off from making any ABM com-
mitment in his State of the Union
message, he commented to a friend that
the issue was now entirely political:
“The only question is whether the
President can stand the heat.”
That friend, and the whole of the
rest of the country, learned last week
that, in the end, the President could
not. But it has been McNamara’s repu-
tation rather than LBJ’s that has been
singed. However unfair, it is part of
the price he has had to pay for being
so long the acknowledged champion of
rational judgment in Government.
Arguably, the Defence Secretary’s
greatest service to the U.S. Government
lay in the calibre of the men whom he
initially brought into the Pentagon with
him. They were not friends, nor even
business associates he introduced no
one, for example, from his old firm,
the Ford Motor Company but they
were all carefully and meticulously
chosen for their ability to deal with
the challenge of turning the greatest
dinosaur in the U.S. Government
machine into a modern and efficient
vehicle of management.
Perhaps inevitably with the tech-
nical job done they have tended,
one by one, to flake away. The con-
sequence has been to make McNamara
into an increasingly isolated and in
some ways vulnerable policymaker,
even within his own department.
In the heyday of his fame and
success it was fashionable to picture the
Defence Secretary as having finally
destroyed the political influence of the
Generals and effectively demolished the
Congressional power of America’s
military-industrial complex. The evid-
ence accumulates, however, that he may
well have achieved nothing more than
temporarily to drive such forces under-
ground. Latterly certainly both on
the always-sore procurement issue of the
dual-purpose F-11l aircraft and on
major policy questions such as the Viet-
nam bombing—they have shown every
sign of having rallied their strength
sufficiently to take him on once again
in the open.
Cambodia and China
On-and-off affair
FURTHER EVIDENCE of the dis-
order in Peking came from Cambodia
last week. Prince Sihanouk has been
at odds with the Chinese since April,
when he accused the Khmers rouges,
his local Communists, and their foreign
friends of launching a guerilla cam-
paign in north-western Cambodia. Then
he banned the local Cambodia-China
friendship association. On September 4,
some enthusiastic revolutionary in
Sihanouk ... appeased by Peking
Peking sent a message to the banned
organisation from its supposed equiva-
lent in Peking, accusing Sihanouk of
being subservient to the Americans. The
message was unwisely published by an
admirable Cambodian newspaper
owned and edited by one of his Left-
wing ministers.
The Prince hit the top, sacking the
minister concerned, one Mr. Chau
Seng, and another of his colleagues,
suspending the private Press, and an-
nouncing the withdrawal of the Cam-
bodian ambassador from China. At
this point Mr. Chou En Lai took a
hand. While the New China news
agency politely pretended the whole
affair had never happened, Mr. Chou
told the Cambodian ambassador, in
effect, that cultural revolutionary ex-
cesses should not be taken too seriously.
Sihanouk was appeased. The ambas-
sador will stay, though the Chinese
agency, for all its politeness, will no
longer be allowed to circulate news in
Cambodia. The ousted ministers stay
out. How long they stay out will be a
useful pointer to Sihanouk’s intentions.
On past form it should not be long:
Mr. Chau Seng, a brilliant former chef
de cabinet to Sihanouk, had barely been
named by the prince in April as one
of those connected with the Khmers
rouges before he was brought into the
government.
The bomb
Does India want
a "nuclear option"?
TEN YEARS AGO every local
conflict, every political explosion was
considered to be the result of the con-
frontation between Russian Com-
munism and American Capitalism. This
interpretation hardly makes sense today.
It can no longer explain away such
diverse phenomena as the burning of
the British mission in Peking, the con-
flicts in the Middle East, the meeting
at Glassboro, etc.
Indeed, the tabling of two identically
worded propositions for a “Pact of
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”
by the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. shows
clearly that, today, the two super-
powers are trying to find joint solutions
to some of the most dangerous conflicts


Model shown: TC-800. List price $250
m
•***
r>
One finger melody-
Your finger Sony's Sony-o-matic
Some people just don’t care that Sony created Japan's
first transistor, first all-transistor radio, first
tape-recorder or the world’s first all-transistor TV.
They just like Sony quality. Such things as silicon
epitaxial transistors mean nought to them.
But they do appreciate that part of the Sony genius
that makes any Sony more automatic. In any price range
Sony is the sound of quality. And, thank heavens,
it's there at the press of a button.
SONY
In a wide range of mono or stereo models listed Irom approximately $63 to $550
To: Jacoby, Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
469-475 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation or cost, information
on Sony Tape-Recorders.
NAME
ADDRESS
830-9-67


mm,
I
a
m
jpfPrryna fi t
BE
rrrirPElEn
HE
33
CT'^rrr
pE&Bii
SB
rn^aa
3
EB
prisma
SIEWAC
S
lA**
ZiGMAU
1
E 3
Y»" jh i -umßaimi
IminaDßagma
GET: B '
Hij,' m r« riiiinaons
T.ijuu„'mni»il
M 1 =*■'■ r-ElfcUApp3KU/^
OS2FffBE233r
Sir
THIS YOUNG LADY IS AN EXPERT INVOICER,
PAYROLL COMPILER, COST CONTROLLER, LEDGER
POSTER, SALES AND SALES TAX ANALYSER.
AT HOME SHE CAN'T BOIL AN EGG.
It takes one week ,to turn a girl like this into an expert
operator of an expert machine: the new Siemag Electronic
Billing Machine. It handles every invoicing job (saving
real time over other systems). It posts simultaneously to
debtors ledger. It compiles the whole payroll. It can
even produce paper tape as a by-product - for computer
processing. The Siemag does all these jobs accurately,
reliably and economically. To find out how economically,
ring us.
SI EM AD
and that they are determined to avoid
a nuclear war.
Twenty countries could produce atom
bombs within the next 20 years. The
list is headed by India 1967 with
Israel only two years behind; South
Africa could be ready by 1976, Brazil
by 1977, East Germany by 1978. Egypt
would have to wait till 1983, Indonesia
till 1984, and Pakistan could make the
grade by 1985.
With India leading the constellation
of possible nuclear stars, the decision
of her Government could well influence
some of the other starlets on her nuclear
horizon. Up to now, the Indian repre-
sentative at the Disarmament Confer-
ence, Mr. Vishnu Trivedi, has made it
clear that his Government refuses cate-
gorically to put its name to a pact
that permits the existing nuclear powers
to continue the manufacture and stock-
piling of nuclear weapons.
In the pact proposed by the White
House and the Kremlin, India sees many
holes: the lack of an international
control agreement; the lack of a clause
guaranteeing security; the opposition of
non-nuclear powers to peaceful nuclear
testing; the absence of provisions to
assure nuclear disarmament; and the
non-participation of China and France.
The lack of any international con-
trol agreement is certainly the strongest
point in India’s argument, and she
should be backed by all countries
which have developed nuclear energy
for industrial purposes. None of
them is prepared to expose itself
to the possibility of industrial espionage.
Whether New Delhi’s other points stand
up to examination is doubtful. The
very fact that India wants to retain
the right to a “nuclear option,” promis-
ing at the same time, never to use it,
is in itself a contradiction.
India’s demand for effective nuclear
disarmament raises the question whether
it is really in the country’s interest
to watch the gradual disappearance of
nuclear stockpiles in Moscow and Wash-
ington, while nobody can control
nuclear development in China.
The explanation of the noise and
categorical statements made by India
is to be found in her internal political
situation. The “Indian Bomb” has be-
come a slogan that can be trotted out
to satisfy the country’s desire for pres-
tige. Indeed, the misfortune of the
disarmament negotiations is that today
the atom bomb has become not so much
a weapon as a symbol. Now that a
decision has to be made by the Indian
Government, it may well be that the
Indian chorus will gradually change.
Why insist on the idea of a “nuclear
option” if they have neither the inten-
tion nor the means to apply it? Why
indeed pretend there is a choice, when
it is certain that the White House and
the Kremlin will do their utmost to
force India’s signature to the Non-
Proliferation Pact?
(By Edith Rebecca Lenart, in the "Far
Eastern Economic Review," Hong Kong)


x: : : ;
a
If you’re wondering how we manage to cover that
many miles an hour, the answer is really
very simple. We do it by going so many places. All
at once. Just as we’re about to take off in San
Francisco, we’re landing in Hong Kong, circling over
Manila, approaching Zamboanga, serving
cocktails above Honolulu, fastening seat belts in
Australia and taxiing in to Taipei. You
can see how a thing like that adds up. So there’s
really nothing new about flying
6,000 m.p.h. We do it every day.
*
SIS
SSI
6000 MPH
AIRLINE
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
For PAL flight schedules and Philippine tour information,
contact your Travel Agent or mail this coupon to:
Philippine Air Lines, 49 York Street, Sydney.
Name
Address
My Travel Agent is
Ansett-ANA General Sales Agents for Australia.
69.208


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
The ABC and import action
By DAVID SALTER
THE AUSTRALIAN Broadcasting
Commission for many years used the
term “< elebrity” for an artist coming
from overseas, in much the same way
as the chainstores, advertising cheap
goods from Hong Kong, describe them
as “imported.” The implication was
clear: the only way to become a celeb-
rity was to come from overseas.
“Twenty concert artists will come
to Australia next year for the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission,” says
the general manager of the ABC, Mr.
T. S. Duckmanton, and the fact that
one of them, Beryl Kimber, actually
lives in Adelaide has to be got around
somehow; perhaps the ABC could pay
her fare to Fiji so that she can arrive
by air as an authentic overseas artist.
The ABC’s Press release announcing
the artists to appear for the Commis-
sion ne*t year reads like the glossy
catalogue of some importer of European
artifacts. The well-known product is
listed, described, and polished off with
some glowing extracts from a foreign
newspaper critique. Successful lines
keep reappearing (once every three
years is a good average) and prototypes
are included to sound out market
reaction.
This year, while no exception, offers
a particularly good range with the
emphasis on pianists. Claudio Arrau
(fourth visit), Annie Fischer, and
Tamas Vasary are artists of the fore-
most international rank. Conductors to
visit will be Moshe Atzmon, Ferdinand
Leitner, Karel Ancerl, and for the
fourth time Willem van Otterloo. Atz-
mon will be making two visits during
1968 before taking up his contract to
direct the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
from 1969 to 1971. And so the list goes
on: British singers Janet Baker and
Alexander Young, American soprano
Phyllis Curtin, Ceylonese cellist Rohan
de Saram, Gerard Souzay, and violinist
Henryk Szeryng are something of a
special bonus.
But wait! There at the bottom of
the ABC’s list Geoffrey Michaels
and Beryl Kimber. Australians! Some
might remember Geoffrey Michaels as
the winner of the 1958 Concerto Com-
petition; it would be an achievement
to remember him, since he has spent
most of his time after the win in
America. He is at present a staff mem-
ber of the Philadelphia New School of
Music. Now teaching at the Elder Con-
servatorium in Adelaide, Beryl Kimber
is a violinist of wide international ex-
perience. Their inclusion, as an after-
thought in the Subscription series, is
indicative of the criminally neglectful
attitude the ABC has shown toward
Australian artists.
True, the public has come to expect
world-class standards in these series and
they are fortunate to have these expec-
tations annually fulfilled, but it is the
Australian Broadcasting Commission,
after all, and one feels that they should
be a little more earnest in their attempts
to support native performers. If they
consider an Australian pianist, singer,
violinist, or whatever not sufficiently
experienced to tackle a full concerto,
what prevents them from including such
a musician in the recital series? There
is plenty of young talent in this country
which fully deserves the support a
properly organised concert tour would
help to generate. Ten minutes on
“Young Australia” is simply not enough.
The most distressing aspect of the
ABC’s treatment of these artists is
that they become a separate group, the
“locals.” Australian musicians have
proved themselves on so many occasions
to be of international standard that
such an appellation sounds more patron-
ising than indicating national pride. It
is unfortunately significant that those
“locals” who do succeed overseas in-
variably choose to stay there. And how
sour the taste can be when they
eventually find time to come back as
overseas artists for the ABC!
City-dweiler
By SANDRA JOBSON
THE GORBALS in Glasgow is just
about the toughest slum area in the
Western world. In its back alleys,
youths wage perpetual gang warfare,
slashing their way through the neigh-
borhood, swinging bicycle chains and
wielding razors. That’s where, 28 years
ago, Murdo Morrison was born. Later
he moved to Inverness, where he con-
tinued to learn the craft of gangland
and the cunning of the slums.
Today, Morrison is an artist, painting
in his tranquil boatshed studio over-
looking Sydney Harbor at Neutral Bay.
Time after time in his paintings, a
theme recurs. He is a man obsessed
with a dream of the perfect, organic
city and some examples of this hang
in his exhibition at the Chippendale
Gallery in Sydney this month.
Earlier this year Murdo won a $lOO
Kimber. .. bottom of the list
prize in the Park Regis Art Competi-
tion with a painting called, not surpris-
ingly, “The City,” and the Lord Mayor,
Alderman J. Armstrong, bought the
painting to hang in the Town Hall.
A psychologist would probably point
to Morrison’s early slum life and his
paintings as cause and reaction. This
tough little Scotsman, his face badly
scarred by a fire in his childhood, was.
the eldest of seven; he and his family
moved in and out of 24 different houses
before they migrated to Australia when
he was 15.
“My earliest memory is imprinted
on my mind.” he said. “I was walking
in the area of the blast furnaces in a
city, probably Glasgow, and the sky
was crimson with the furnace fires. I
can remember seeing a line of bottles
standing on a wall jagged against the
sky and figures walking between high
fences along narrow lanes.
‘T’m a dyed-in-the-wool introvert
there’s no hope that I’ll ever get out,”
he said firmly. “I believe that it’s in an
artist’s nature to go inside himself,,
and in that way to go out. And he-
doesn’t need a crutch like drugs to help
him.
“I’m reduced to abject terror by look-
ing at an oyster or a leaf. It’s no-
longer what it is. It gets like the
mystics repeating a word over and over
again. All I know is that I’ve got to
get to the organic structure of what
I’m looking at.”
He went to the Royal Academy at
Inverness and says he was teaching the
other children the principles of per-
spective at the age of 11.
“I’m in love with my art,” he said.
“It has an aphrodisiac effect on me.
I’ve just got to paint. I’ve been influ-


enced by every painter I’ve ever set
eyes on. But I don’t adopt their tech-
niques. I use their ideas like a chef —
to flavor my recipe. I’m most im-
pressed with Graham Sutherland, I sup-
pose, and Picasso,” he said.
To earn enough to keep his wife and
three-month-old son, Adam, Morrison
works two days each week as a sign-
writer in Wollongong. “I taught myself
signwriting,” he said.
Since he was 15 he has had many
jobs—as a motor mechanic, dry-cleaner,
engineering storeman, and as a traffic
organiser for a cigarette firm. “I
enjoyed that job,” he said. “It meant
tackling a system. I had to work out a
route for cars to pick up 125 employees
each day to take them to work. And
they kept changing their addresses. I
managed to reduce that to a few filing
cards. I enjoy mastering systems.
“I tried 51 times to get a job in an
advertising agency, but I just couldn’t
force myself to paint a highlight on a
shoe. Of course, I could do it, but it
made me feel sick.”
But Morrison is a practical man.
“I’m a member of the ‘suck-and-see’
school—l do a thing first and then I
find out afterwards what it was.
“I feel that just as an age of know-
ledge flowered out of the dark ages, so
will a new age develop from the present
brute materialism of the industrial age,”
he said. “The world needs a bit of
grace.”
Films
Well-oiled machine
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
Accident. Director, Joseph Losey.
Just Like A Woman. Director, Robert
Fuerst.
El Greco. Director, Luciono Salce.
Joseph Losey has rarely been less
than an interesting director, and my
attention was never in danger of wan-
dering during “Accident.” But I was
very often irritated and in the end was
left unsatisfied by it. I found it an
extremely affected and overblown film;
I wouldn’t recommend it exactly, but I
recommend you to see it.
The film begins with a long-held shot
of an English country house with the
soft night noises of owls and crickets
interrupted by the shocking metallic
scream of a car crash. The house-
holder, an Oxford don, runs out to
find two victims, the boy dead, the
girl merely shocked. They’re both his
students, and he’s been half in love
with both of them—or at any rate
with their glowing youth. Then the
film traces in flashback the garbled rela-
tionships which have been brought into
some sort of focus by the accident.
Losey handles the technical problems
with expertise and obvious enjoyment.
His film is charming to look at and
works as smoothly as a well-oiled
machine. And the last contains its
great fault—it’s mechanical. It is about
people (and people going through hell,
at that), but there’s only rarely a touch
of human warmth. Most of the time
the troubled lives of the don, his wife,
his colleagues, and the students are dis-
played as coolly and dispassionately as
a chess problem.
Pinter is generally credited with
justice with having “an ear for con-
versation,” but too often here the con-
versation boils down to fascinating ex-
changes like “I’ll make the supper.”
“Thanks, dear.” And Losey is obsessed
with what doesn’t happen—his film
dwells on the empty chair, the unsaid
remark, the person who hasn’t arrived.
The movie is generally very well
acted. Vivien Merchant in particular
is memorable as the don’s wife, prob-
ably the only character that makes sense
in emotional terms. Dirk Bogarde and
Stanley Baker do remarkably well, con-
sidering the shifting emphases of the
roles they have to play. As the girl
who’s the unwitting cause of all the
trouble Jacqueline Sassard is forced to
be so enigmatic as to become almost
meaningless, but she’s extremely hand-
some, even if she doesn’t look much
like an Austrian or a student of philo-
sophy.
We’re always hearing about brilliant
directors who are hamstrung by an un-
imaginative front office, but in the case
of Robert Fuerst and “Just Like A
Woman” we could do with some prac-
tical, down-to-earth limitations to his
creative excesses. It’s a frantic, undis-
ciplined, disorganised film, in which
some very funny sequences and
moments of genuine beauty are inter-
rupted by an over-excited search for
originality at all costs. The use of
color, obviously influenced, like much
of the movie, by Fellini, is occasionally
breathtaking, but often merely garish
and tiresome.
But it’s worth putting up with its
scattiness for the evidences of a con-
siderable talent both in direction and
scriptwriting—a short, elliptical conver-
sation between the deserted husband
and a family friend could give Pinter
lessons on how to use the unsaid word—
and is delightfully acted by a team
whose comedy timing is something to
marvel at.
I don’t know much about the life of
El Greco, but according to a quite
remarkably dull Italo-French produc-
tion, dubbed into impossibly stately
English, he had the usual chapter of
misfortunes of artists in the movies—•
Church disapproval of his work, a
doomed love affair with a girl above
his station, a set-to with the Inquisi-
tion after the lying denunciation of a
jealous rival (rather mildly described
as “by no means a nice chap”). At
least it lets us see reproductions of some
of his paintings. There is the minor
surprise that El Greco is not played by
Charlton Heston but by Mel Ferrer; it
isn’t much, but it’s something.
Television
Down on the farm
By FRANK ROBERTS
Seven Days. ATN 7, Sydney.
ONE NIGHT some weeks ago, “This
Day Tonight” showed an unusually
non-newsworthy item, a studio inter-
view with Trade Minister and Deputy
Prime Minister John McEwen, who
seemed to have nothing much to say,
no good reason for being there, except
perhaps that he had had a recent ill-
ness, had been absent from a couple of
Cabinet meetings, and wanted to show
us that he had not only bounced back
but was still on the ball.
Last week “Seven Days” spent an
equally mysterious half hour on a re-
view of Mr. McEwen’s life story, con-
ducted by Peter Martin. Or at least
that was the idea. As it worked out, the
interview seemed to be conducted by
John McEwen in the course of showing
his interviewer around his Victorian
farm. Mostly, the interviewer would ask
questions beginning with “Didn’t . . .”
or “Wasn’t . . .” to which the answer
was “No . . .” followed by an explana-
tion of what the facts were. A viewer
could almost have been excused for
thinking that some well-meaning PR
man, not entirely in possession of all
the facts, had briefed the “Seven Days”
interviewer wrongly, giving the entire
show this topsy-turvy effect.
In the course of the ramble we
learned that Mr. McEwen, then a Com-
monwealth Public Servant, had worked
on farms after World War I to qualify
as fitted for a soldier settlement block
of irrigation land, and had stayed with
it while others departed for the cities
during hard times when the price of
butterfat fell from 2/9 a pound to
that he became elected leader of the
remaining farmers’ co-operative, which
many years later became today’s Ton-
gala company.
The latter part of the ramble turned
into a mental one as Mr. McEwen
answered some questions about his
career in politics. Menzies and Page
were not good friends. McEwen was
most interested in External Affairs, but
had continuously been sidetracked into
other portfolios in following rightful
Country Party interests. Finally, we
came to the only aspect of the program
that had been publicised, that during
the war Mr. McEwen went to Noumea
to make sure New Caledonia stayed
with de Gaulle by fomenting an
“armed” rebellion against Vichy. Then
we said “goodbye” to the subject, his
farm, and the dullest interview “Seven
Days” has recorded.
The idea was not a good one, ex-
cept in that it will discourage anyone
who might think of interviewing, say,
Treasurer McMahon at home among
his books and baby-carriages, from
similarly depressing viewers with dis-
enchanting looks at the politician at
home.


Theatre
Extraordinary
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
The Dance of Death. Strindberg. In-
dependent, Sydney.
“IS THAT supposed to be what
married life is like?” an elderly lady
asked indignantly over the curry, at
the end of Part 1. “It is not like that
in our house.” It was rather like that in
Strindberg’s house, or he thought it
was. In any case, one would not say that
this is a picture of married life in
general, but of the married life of two
very strong personalities who have
spent a great part of 25 years battling
with each other. Albee’s debt to Strind-
berg in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?” (which he has acknowledged)
is very clear.
Edgar and Alice live in an old stone
fortress on an island, where Edgar is
the Captain of the Garrison. Alice, like
Strindberg’s first wife, was an actress
before she was married. By now they
are tired and battle-weary, but their
fighting days are by no means over.
The arrival of Kurt, Alice’s cousin, who
has just returned from America, where
he spent 15 years after the breakdown
of his marriage, introduces a new
element into the situation.
Kurt is a much slighter personality
than either Edgar or Alice. Having been
battered about a lot by life, he is very
ready to be sympathetic, but he finds
that these two egotists are chiefly inter-
ested in using him as a weapon against
each other. After watching the way they
tear each other to pieces, and almost
being devoured by Alice himself, he
decides they are both demons and
flees.
At the end of Part I, which is fre-
quently performed on its own, Alice
and Edgar are in a very similar posi-
tion to that of George and Martha at
the end of “Who’s Afraid?”: exhausted
by the battle, realising that each is
partly in the wrong, and that there is
no escape from each other.
When the curtain goes up on Part II
we have been transported from the
austere, dun-colored room in the stone
tower to an elegant white-and-gold
drawing-room. It is summer and the
garden is visible through the french
windows. This is Kurt’s house, now
that he is Quarantine Officer on the
island. His son, Allan, is a cadet in the
Garrison Company and Judith, Edgar’s
•daughter, is gaily breaking the hearts of
Allan and the lieutenant who is his
instructor.
Elizabeth Sprigge, the translator,
says that the two parts were “un-
doubtedly” intended to be played to-
gether as one play. Martin Esslin, re-
viewing the London production, in
which Laurence Olivier played Edgar,
says that they were written as two fully
self-contained plays. In London, how-
ever, the two plays were condensed into
one by cutting. Martin Esslin wrote:
“The cuts are skilfully made and the
effect of seeing two climaxes and two
solutions is a curiously epic one, like
that produced by the reading of a long
and very satisfying novel.” This effect
of bounty and richness is also produced
by seeing the whole of both plays, but,
in the Sydney production, it is at the
expense of dramatic coherence.
Coming away from the theatre at
the end of this marathon, I was im-
pressed by the power and force of
Strindberg’s imagination, by the
courage of the Independent in tackling
such a huge task and by the profes-
sionalism of the production, but at the
same time I was wondering: “What
was wrong with it?”
Ron Haddrick gives a quite remark-
able performance as the Captain, subtle
and thoughtful. With his skull-like
head and stiff, puppet-like movements,
he is grotesque, but he seems to me too
cold. Edgar has a larger spirit, is both
more monstrous and more human.
Jacqueline Kott, Alexander Hay, and
Ron Haddrick in “The Dance of
Death” Independent, Sydney
But Ron Haddrick is not helped by
Jacqueline Kott’s Alice or Alexander
Hay’s Kurt, or the producer, Robert
Levis. Jacqueline Kott plays Alice
straight, like the wronged heroine of a
melodrama, all beauty and dignity and
deserving of our pity. But Alice is just
as much a monster or egotist as Edgar
and just as unscrupulous, and, being
an ex-actress, her capacity for self-
dramatisation is limitless. It is hard to
understand how Miss Kott has missed
her opportunities for comic histrionics,
but I think Mr. Levis must be held re-
sponsible. Likewise, Alexander Hay
chooses the path of melodrama as the
weak, likeable Kurt, torn between his
attraction to Alice and a healthy desire
not to get sucked into the maelstrom.
Carmen Duncan, as the beautiful and
dangerous young Judith, and Ross
Thompson, as the shy, suffering Allan,
are so good that they almost take over
Part 11. Donald MacDonald gives a
musical comedy version of the Lieuten-
ant, which is not what Strindberg
meant.
In spite of these criticisms, I recom-
mend that you seize the opportunity to
go to this extraordinary masterpiece.
Rich rewards
By PHILLIP ADAMS
The Heiress. Ruth and Augustus Goetz.
Russell Street, Melbourne.
Macbird. Barbara Garson. Emerald Hill,
Melbourne.
HOWEVER MEDIOCRE a painting,
if it’s got a patina I’m prone to un-
warranted reverence. And should a piece
of furniture have even one of its ball-
and-claw feet planted in the nineteenth
century I’m besotted. In fact, as the
most spurious antique can reduce me to
obsequiousness, I’m quite incapable of
being objective about “The Heiress.”
Set in Washington Square in 1850,
“The Heiress” tells the story of an ugly
duckling who never became a swan.
Doctor Austin Sloper has never ceased
to yearn for his brilliant, beautiful wife
who died in childbirth 20 years before.
Unconsciously, he blames his daughter,
Catherine, for her death—and sees her
shyness as stupidity and her plainness as
deformity. Sensitive and uncertain,
Catherine tends to conform to her
father’s image of her, becoming tongue-
tied and clumsy in his presence. Spin-
sterhood looms. Yet, when a suitor calls,
the Doctor’s repugnance for his daugh-
ter makes him suspect the young man’s
motives. The bounder, he’s convinced,
can only be after the girl’s inheritance.
George Ogilvie’s production is far
more effective than the sum of its parts,
as none of the performances (with the
possible exception of Monica Maugham’s
scatty maiden aunt) are truly distin-
guished. Yet the whole effect is remark-
ably convincing and the theatrical
illusion is almost complete. This is
largely a result of visual expertise. Kris-
tian Frederikson’s sets and costumes —
and even the cast’s make-up —is of a
very high order. And Ogilvie has his
cast deliver James’ taut, efficient dia-
logue with careful understatement. This
is particularly true of Michael Duf-
field’s Doctor and David Turnbull’s
ne’er-do-well, although Maggie Millar
plays the ugly duckling with more
pathos than was strictly necessary.
Barbara Garson’s “Macßird” is an
absolute contrast. It’s a pop play, a
prolonged revue sketch; a three-act
political cartoon; a piece of disposable
culture. For all its cheek, it requires
tremendous momentum to sustain itself;
slow it down and its weaknesses become
too obvious. Play it as inexpertly as
New Theatre and it collapses into
undergrad tedium. With the exception
of a few lively moments, Dot Thomp-
son’s production was more like an un-
easy reading. Frank Bren and Terence
Ward were excellent as John O’Dunc
and Bobby and had the Bostonian
patois down pat. Clem Parkinson was a


GET LOST
in our four acres of
tropical gardens!
IMBIBE
pure mountain air!
HARKEN
to the song of the birds!
CONSUME
all the tropical delicacies!
in a word,
RELAX in the most convenient
paradise Australia has to offer:
Just 65 miles north of Bris-
bane on good bitumen sealed
roads.
ENJOY every modern contri-
vance, including TELEX . . .
Be our guest and play the
Stock Markets from our pool-
side.
Luxurious appointments,
fabulous food at
NETTLETON'S
BUDERIM MT. MOTEL
Buderim, Qld.
Phone 55-1550 Telex 40291
Buderim ... a Flag Motel
LOOK
sis;
HANDSFREE
LOUD-SPEAKING
TRANSISTORISED
TELEPHONE
PMO APPROVED
Ideal for all busy executives, doctors,
architects, engineers, purchasing officers,
etc. For a demonstration contact:—
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. EAWKNER. PH.ONE 359 3544
134 BARCOM AVF RUSHCUTTI RS BAY PHONE 31 0941
AOtNTS:
TAS.: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 22911
OLD.: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B'bane. 2 3201
S.A.: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 84131
W.A.: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
competent Wayne of Morse, while
Suzie Millis and Jim Buchanan were
good value as the Beatnik and Worker
Witches. However, most of the others
were inadequate, and Don Munro,
despite his facial similarity to LBJ, was
a disastrous Macßird. He remembered
his Texan drawl about twice in the
evening, and even then failed to invest
his character with a fraction of the
required vulgarity.
Art
English Oldies
By ELWYN LYNN
Artists from the Marlborough Galleries,
London. Australian Galleries, Mel-
bourne.
WE ARE ALREADY indebted to Kym
Bonython’s association with London’s
Marlborough for that gallery’s prints,
which include works by Nolan, White-
ley, and Lanceley, and now at the
Australian Galleries may be seen a
judicious, if sometimes minor, selection
of 35 paintings and sculptures. Already
seen in Adelaide without the splendid
Bacon, they are due in Sydney late
this year, where those who saw only
affinities between the large British and
American shows will be able to assess
what the older English avant-garde has
meant to the younger painters and how
English art has benefited by the exist-
ence of a strata of age groups; indeed,
the exhibition, which does contain some
work by the new generation, shows, on
the whole, the virtues of steady develop-
ment in the thoughtful ’thirties and
’forties in contrast with the sensational
’sixties and the frenzies of fashion.
Many of the Marlborough artists are
mildly haunted by English romanticism
and landscape, and one wonders if
Gestaltian rigidity suits the English
temperament; Bacon, a vigorous
opponent of abstraction, doesn’t think
so, and his Portrait of P.L. (it appears
in the Rothenstein-Alley book on
Bacon) has all the irrationality,
violence, and ambiguities of romantic-
ism. The paint, and particularly the
flesh, is less oleaginous than usual; the
surface is crumbly, and gritty smudges
of black besmirch the dissolving figure,
haloed by a mattress and white sheet
and set against regal purple and the
sourest of greens; it’s about the resis-
tance to the dissolution of flesh and
the bodily form epitomising racking in-
decisions in bare, airless, inimical rooms.
The Roland Piche fibreglass-and-resin
Portrait and a Deposition (it is repro-
duced in the current “Art Interna-
tional”) is said to derive from Bacon,
but the great black breast-womb shape
with its embracing phallic seedpod is
about fruition rather than decay’s des-
pair and has affinities with Barbara
Hepworth’s hollowed egg with its centre
strung like an Aeolian harp. Romantic
notions of nature as womb-like haven
or symbol of discord die hard and
the forms of bulging boulders, briar,
and lashing or languorous wave persist;
Sutherland’s form in ragged yellows,
greens, and touches of purple signals
the chaos of organic growth and Auer-
bach’s Primrose Hill, Winter Fog is a
churned khaki impasto of palpable fog
that engulfs the landscape. It is a curi-
ous painting about disordered atmos-
phere in much the same way as Nolan’s
reclining figure on the blasted heath
with its squiggly, pompon trees from
Dimboola.
There is even a romantic softness in
Vaughan’s Cezannesque disposition of
painterly shapes, but certainly de Stael
and Cezanne would have found it over
anti-classical; even the formal elements
in Ben Nicholson’s carved relief (20in.
x 22in., and, to give some idea of prices,
about $7500) are modified by a delicate,
cobwebbed paint and have a cool
clarity without Mondrian’s crisp
assertiveness.
The best example of the shading-off
of classicism to romanticism comes with
Victor Pasmore; his Relief Painting
(50in. x 50in., $4000), despite its rect-
angular positiveness, casts gentle shad-
ows and his Line and Space, while in-
debted to Mondrian, has a featheri-
ness of paint and poised indecision of
crisp, broken lines that Mondrian would
have abhorred. Even the flat silver
and white rectangles in Richard Lin
look as though a thin, crisp layer of
snow had fallen on Calder Hall, and
Tilson’s colored and stained reliefs
evoke feelings foreign to classicism. Of
course, with Sutherland’s and Piper’s
watercolors we are indisputedly in
x'omanticism’s vivacious but contempla-
tive domain; and, incidentally, they
remind us of the excellence of the
traditions of English watercolor.
Armitage, whose Legend of Skadar
is a four-foot-high monolith with two
glowing brassy breasts, and Moore
always seem like classicists whose forms
are sundered by powerful, unconscious
drives: Moore’s standing figure reliefs
(lOin. high, the pair $10,000) erupt
into draped landscapes and his bronze
Two Piece Reclining Figure is a most
curiously effective balance between a
hawkish head and surreal lump like an
objet trouvee.
Ceri Richards, in his La Cathedrale
Engloutie-Sea Script, lets strange, pale
images momentarily waft up and culti-
vates a particularly English air of
awkward indecision that evokes lyrically
poetic comment; in fact, the painting
becomes the image. On the other hand,
Jack Smith, once a creative cook in
the kitchen-sink school, disperses his
small, kaleidoscopic images on a peachy
yellow ground; they do cavort in an
elusive rhythm, and if there is a resemb-
lance to Kandinsky it’s certainly not
in Smith’s casual subtlety.
Most of the show displays an oblique
and subtle working out of themes, and,
however formidable Moore and Bacon
may be, subsidiary themes give their
work a detached involvement.


COMMONWEALTH BANKING CORPORATION
Combined Assets and Liabilities of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and its constituent banks as at
30th June, 1967.
Highlights for 1966/67 were:—
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
Deposits increased by $9l million, and passed $l,OOO million for the first time. At June, 1967, total deposits
stood at $1,014 million.
New lending approvals rose sharply, exceeding the high level of $3OO million, or $6 million a week.
The Bank’s lending range was extended by the addition of personal loan facilities. Total loans outstanding
increased by $6B million, the largest annual increase yet recorded.
The number of accounts conducted increased by 34,000 to 972,000. The services of the C.T.B. are now
available at 1,083 branches and agencies, 21 more than a year earlier.
1966/ 67 profit after tax, $2,808,706
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA
1966/67 was a year of strong growth for the Commonwealth Savings Bank. Depositors' balances reached
$2,500 million at 30th June. The year’s increase in depositors’ balances ($176m.) has been exceeded only on one
occasion in the Bank’s history. The Commonwealth Savings Bank was again the largest institutional lender for
housing in Australia. Loans approved for housing during the year totalled $135 million—a record. This takes the
total of loans for housing made since 1946 past the $l,OOO million mark, and represents assistance to about 225,000
families. Loans totalling $49 million were also made available for essential community services such as roads,
electricity, water and sewerage.
At 30th June, 1967, the Bank conducted 6,582,000 active accounts.
Commonwealth Savings Bank services are available at over 9,300 branches and agencies.
1966/67 profit, $7,086,182
COMMONWEALTH DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AUSTRALIA
The Commonwealth Development Bank, which provides financial assistance to primary and secondary
industries for projects designed to increase production or productivity, does not compete with conventional and
traditional lenders, but provides help where, in the opinion of the Bank, such help is desirable and the finance
would not otherwise be available on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions.
The Commonwealth Development Bank experienced strong demand for term loans and equipment finance,
and $B6 million was approved during 1966/67. Since its establishment in 1960 the Development Bank has approved
financial assistance totalling $494.4 million, and its activities play a significant part in the growth of the national
economy.
At 30th June, 1967, balances outstanding totalled $202 million.
1966/67 profit, $1,982,800
c
The Reports and Financial Statements are available at any branch
of the
COMMONWEALTH
BANKS


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
An unnecessary slack
in the economy
IT IS FAR TOO early yet to say that
the Budget strategy was a failure, but
the crop of statistics which have been
harvested since it was brought down in
Parliament are rather sad. Almost with-
out exception, their trend is contrary to
that assumed in the Budget.
Employment continues very flat in-
deed. If anything, unemployment is
drifting upwards. Job vacancies con-
tinue to be few in number 36,000
compared to 57,000 in 1965. The slack
in the economy is not large, of course,
and not particularly alarming. But it
is unnecessary. We are living in a time
when our Government tells us national
resources must be very carefully divided
between defence development and the
private sector. A policy which allows
slack in the economy is hardly con-
sistent with talk of resources being
limited.
According to preliminary statistics,
new capital raisings by companies were
extraordinarily low in the June quarter.
For listed companies s36m. was raised,
exactly half the amount during the
same period last year. This dramatic
fall is partially reflected in figures on
capital expenditure by business, which
is down from s42om. and s43om. to
below s4oom. For a long time past
economic commentators have been pre-
dicting a fall in business capital spend-
ing and fortunately it has, until now,
not appeared. There has merely been
a cessation in growth. The fall may go
no further than the June figure we have
just referred to, but this is not really
the point.
The Budget strategy was based on the
expectation that business capital spend-
ing would rise substantially. It would
be much more reassuring if the signs
were not pointing the other way.
On the side of the final demand, re-
tail sales figures are difficult to inter-
pret. May and June saw solid advances,
the seasonally adjusted rates going
from ssB9m. to $593m. and ss9Bm.
Healthy increases compared with those
of previous months. The provisional
July figure is, however, rather weak,
with a fall back to $595m. Again this
is not of great significance, but it does
tend to take some of the wind out of
the Treasury optimists, who seem to
have detected an acceleration in con-
sumer spending.
Fortunately, according to the Wales-
ACMA survey of business expectations,
businessmen are more confident now
than before the Budget. An increased
proportion of those polled think the
general business situation will improve,
almost none think it will deteriorate.
Just over a half (51 percent) report
operating at a “satisfactory” rate of
operation, compared to 45 percent be-
fore the Budget. But orders continue
to be the major limiting factor for two-
thirds of firms.
Western Australia
Climax for alumina
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S rapid
development is showing no signs of
slowing down. Only a few days after
Western Mining Corporation made it
clear that a nickel smelter and refinery
would be built in Western Australia, a
similar prospect for aluminium was out-
lined in Perth last week by officials of
American Metal Climax Inc.
Feed for this would come from the
vast bauxite deposits opening up in
the State’s far north the Mitchell
Plateau area near Admiralty Gulf. A
firm decision on the first stage has been
promised at the end of the current dry
season, within two or three months,
when a clearer picture of the available
bauxite will be to hand. Negotiations
have begun with the State Government
on terms of setting up such a complex
(and Amax have patted the West on
its broad back for the investment cli-
mate created for such enterprises).
This Kimberleys bauxite deposit has
been compared in size and grade with
Weipa, but the Amax men in Perth
were reluctant to define either reserves
or grade, other than to say that only
50-70 m. tons had been proved against
the 200 m. needed, in the words of presi-
dent lan K. MacGregor, .for the com-
pany to be “absolutely sure of going
ahead.” Still, what was said revealed,
excitement in such a conservative or-
ganisation as Amax.
An investment of SU.S.IOOm. is
envisaged, and this would take the pro-
ject to the alumina stage a stage
already reached far to the south with
Alcoa’s Kwinana refinery. Metallising,
with a Geelong-type plant, will then
follow if sufficient reserves can be
proved up and, equally important, if
power can be made available at the
right price and in the right quantities.
Mr. MacGregor said his company was
looking at tidal and nuclear power
possibilities, as well as at plants gener-
ated by oil or gas. Ports should be little
problem, he said, since the likely out-
let of Cape Warrender had a good 10
fathoms of water. However, his fore-
casts were made before he had visited
the area, which has particularly rugged
terrain and will be a different proposit-
ion to the more barren and less difficult
Pilbara country.
At present Amax are buying Alcoa
alumina from Kwinana, shipping it
to America’s west coast, metallising it
(with power half the minimum Aus-
tralian price), and then getting it into
what they call a particularly competi-
tive market. With sights set on Japan,
such long hauls would not be feasible.
On the ticklish point of partnerships,
Amax plan to work on a consortium
basis and have had preliminary talks-
with potential joint-venturers, though
none of them so far has been Australian
(although one does have an Australian
interest). They plan to start operating
on a marginal 100 m. ton throughput of
bauxite annually, building up to three
or four times this amount.
The group is already well established
in the West, with a 25 percent equity
in the Mt. Newman iron ore venture.
The SU.S.6Om. investment originally
represented 50 percent of Mt. Newman,
but the percentage has diminished as-
the price of the project has soared.
Alcoa’s present refinery at Kwinana


THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: Last week’s fare from the Com-
monwealth Statistician did not prove particularly enlivening
. . . Seasonally adjusted, August’s registered unemployed
went up 974 from July to a total 70,755; registered vacancies
dropped back 136 to 36,317 . . . Most sectors of industrial
production exhibited just a small lift during the three months
ended August; industry as a whole is operating below
capacity and building materials are notoriously laggard
. . . New motor vehicle registrations showed some improve-
ment in August, to indicate an annual rate of 408,000.
The Associated Chamber of Manufactures-Bank of N.S.W.
quarterly survey of industrial trends suggested that manu-
facturers feel optimistic about the current quarter despite
some slowness in orders; spending on plant and machinery
should rise over the next year.
For the markets : Metals and oils have made most of
the running on Australian share markets, with “special
situations” bringing their due meed of influence. Industrials
remain generally steady, though some minor index sections
look a little erratic.
London achieved a new peak on Wednesday (September
20), with equities going well ahead; profit-taking lowered
industrials on Friday . . . “Glamor” stocks pushed forward
on Wall Street in a mood of “inflationary thinking.”
For companies: The battle for, and local defence
of, Mount Morgan has been joined. In opposition to the
overseas-dominated Power Corporation’s desire to obtain a
51 percent interest stands Peko-Wallsend with a share ex-
change offer for all the capital three Peko 50 cent shares
and five $1 9 percent redeemable preferences for four $1
Mount Morgans. Power proposes to go direct to Mount
Morgan shareholders, whose directors support the Peko bid.
An important contract to supply Japanese steel mills with
9.9 million tons of Whyalla iron-ore pellets is secured by
BHP, to extend over eight years; prices are beneath the
lately deceased “guidelines,” but, significantly, BHP may it-
self ship more than half the order.
Rather surprisingly, Sydney’s Australian Gas Light Co.
is to finance Planet Oil Co. in the search for oil, gas, and
minerals in north-west N.S.W., to earn a half-interest in any
discovery; a main interest focuses on the Bancannia prospect
. . . Tin miner Renison continues to have some difficulty
with its new treatment plant, yet speaks hopefully of the
latest exploration drilling; both Renison and Mount Lyell
believe they can overcome the Tasmanian power restrictions
. . . Kathleen Investments’ subsidiary Queensland Mines
possesses “considerable” uranium ore reserve at the Cloncurry
tenements.
On to the big-retailer bandwagon climbed Grace Bros.
Holdings with earnings up by 20 percent to $2,115,207 and
a dividend up from 12| to percent; all sections were
successful and directors sound particularly pleased with
Roselands . . . David Jones’ directors talk about a difficult
year for retailers; sales, however, put on 7 percent in the
year to July.
Brewer Tooheys keeps on looking better and better by
sending 1966-67 profits up from $1,771,772 to $1,909,720;
dividend creeps from 8| to 9 percent on a “1 percent earn-
ing rate . . . Ice-cream and dairy group Queensland United
Foods added $106,242 to reach $801,183 and kept 11 per-
MAN AND MATTERS
NOT LONG AFTER George Pizzey &
Son, leather and engineering group,
elected out of the blue to make a share
offer for its associate Mobile Industrial
Equipment, in which it has about a 43
percent stake, a shareholder at the
Mobile meeting, talking from the
strength of a mere 500 shares, told the
chair flatly that Pizzeys was a dormant
stock and he wouldn’t have a bar of
it. The man in the Mobile chair,
none other than the present occupant
also of the Pizzey chair, didn’t quite
hear him out before asking him to sit
down. So much for democratic share
ownership when the big guns of inter-
locked directorates open fire.
The big gun in this case was Mr.
Alec Pizzey, an old Scotch Collegian, a
former captain in the Army, and by
profession a chemical engineer. Like
most of the Pizzey family, who’ve been
ruling the roost down Fitzroy way since
doomsday, Alec has been in the tan-
ning business for most of his life. He
was the first to complete the tanning
diploma course at Sydney Technical
College, then studied the trade in
Britain and Germany, and now at 55
knows it backwards.
Alec is only one of seven Pizzeys on
the board. The deputy chairman and
general manager is his brother Ewan,
who was a flying-officer in the RAAF
and earlier something of a prodigy at
accountancy, getting his ticket when
he was 21. Another brother, Boyce, is
general manager of the group’s northern
division in Sydney. They followed
their father, Alec (now retired), into the
firm and are the great grandsons of
the original George who started it.
Plenty of young Pizzeys are coming
along to secure the succession as the
group, far from being dormant, has
taken on a new lease of life in recent
times, diversifying further and further
beyond the original tanning motif. The
present chairman has two daughters and
a son, who is studying law; his father
thinks he’ll find his way to the firm
if he makes the grade in the outside
business world first.
LADY WEBSTER, wife of Australia’s
“Mr. Textiles,” Sir Robert Webster,
went back to work for a few days last
month, back to the textile trade in
which she was a senior executive before
marrying her boss 13 years ago. As
chairman of a panel of nine judges
(assisted by six technical advisers who
will certify as to the quality of the
materials), she decided on this year’s
winners of the “Fabrics of the Year”
award before flying off with her hus-
band on yet another of the business trips
that keep her away from her Clifton
Gardens home for many months each
year.
It was a task picking the winners (to
be announced next month) from the
700 fabrics entered in 23 categories. But
Lady Webster
A. E. Pizzey
Lady Webster has a fair knowledge of
the textile business, for she spent 11
years with Bradford Cotton, ending up
in 1954 as personnel manager in charge
of several thousand employees. And
being Sir Robert Webster’s wife has
kept her in intensive touch with the
industry.
Being married to 76-year-old Sir
Robert is like still being at Bradford
Cotton, for, even though he retired as
managing director at the beginning of
this year, he is still chairman and takes
an active interest in its affairs.
A Melbourne widow, then Mrs.
Daphne Hendy, Lady Webster joined
Bradford in 1943. Marrying Sir Robert,
then a widower, added a son and three
daughters to her own family of a
daughter. She is now a grandmother
to 14 children.


cent; sales rose by 7.7 percent to
$29.4m. . . . Newcastle poultry pro-
cessor Steggles slipped by $80,359 to
$296,808, holding 10 percent comfort-
ably; total sales compared favorably
with 1965-66, margins went lotver and
continue to do so.
Engineering and kindred industries
came with a prolific burst . . .
Vehicle components maker National
Consolidated wheedled profit up from
$2,559,545 to $2,583,399 after reduced
depreciation; the 20 percent rate is
unaffected . . . Shipbuilder Evans
Beakin improved by $78,445 to reach
$560,662 . . . Takeovers dramatically
aided Consolidated Metal Products,
which leapt from $391,779 to
$805,406; on the strength of better
earning rate, even on higher capital,
payout moves from to 13J per-
cent . . . LNC Industries couldn’t
behave in accord with the board’s
predictions, so profit dropped 15 per-
cent to $213,142, leaving a 15 percent
dividend just uncovered . . . Mel-
bourne structural and mechanical
engineer Dodds Consolidated shifted
earnings from $348,748 to $369,631
following a brighter second half...
Lower tax helped Thompsons (Castle-
maine) when power, water, and
sewerage contracts fell off; in the
event, earnings declined $35,446 to
$303,181 . . . Steel founder Bradford
Kendall optimistically announces a 1-
for-5 bonus together with a 50 per-
cent profit jump to $935,241, and
giving a 56.3 percent earning rate
. . . Tubular steel and wire products
maker Cyclone looked rather more
solid as profit climbed from $926,565
to $1,062,783; the 10 percent sur-
vives . . . Martin Bright Steels also
retains 10 percent on earnings sent
from $444,979 to $501,361; again the
second half looked better . . . Thiess
Holdings marched in at the end with
a fine 25 percent profit advance
which edged earning rate up slightly
after the l-for-5 bonus increase in
capital; the actual profit totalled
$2,045,265 and an indicated 10 per-
cent dividend is confirmed.
Textilers were once more cheered
by Bond’s, whose shareholders joined
the fun, too, with a 2 percent increase
to 14 percent; a fresh record in
profits, $1,507,765, represented a 26
percent gain.
The money-market dealers are still
on velvet . . . Australian Investment
and Development was particularly
assisted by its operator Short Term
Acceptances doubling its payment to
30 percent . . . National Discount
Corporation joined the progress but
criticised the rise in short-term bond
prices . . . Financier Direct Accep-
tance lifted turnover $2.35m. and
profit from $203,639 to $280,017.
Australian Consolidated Industries
foreshadowed an issue next year and
regrettably disclosed lower earnings
for the first five months of the cur-
rent year; “a recovery is expected.”
BHP’s iron ore deal
shaves guidelines
IT LOOKED as if BHP had put a cat
among the pigeons last week when it
announced a “cut price” $B9 million
iron-ore pellet sale to Japan at a time
when its former partner, Cleveland
Cliffs, was busy negotiating for what
could be Australia’s biggest iron-ore
export order and when BHP’s present
partners in the Mt. Newman con-
sortium are committed to installing a
big “secondary processing” unit (if not
an actual steelworks) in Western Aus-
tralia. Fbr BHP’s export contract, for
9.9 million tons of pellets, will come
from its South Australian pellet plant,
Australia’s first, which is due to begin
production in March next year.
And to make matters look worse,
the BHP contract was announced as
being “below” the old, official price
guidelines that were removed last
month, and so gave the impression it
would have some effect on negotiations
for further contracts now going on be-
tween the Japanese and other Aus-
tralian producers (just as Hamersley’s
new $270 million contract earlier this
month represented a lower than guide-
lines price).
But the facts suggest that on all
scores there is nothing too disturbing
about the BHP deal for any of the in-
terested parties in the iron-ore export
business. In the first place, the price
appears to shave the guidelines price
for pellets by only about 0.2 cents a
unit of ferric content (down from 18.5
cents to 18.3 cents on an f.o.b. basis),
which hardly seems a serious cut. But,
more important for the development
of Western Australia, it appears that
the BHP contract has made little dif-
ference to anything that is planned
there. For BHP’s obligation to provide
the Japanese with pellets was a hang-
over of its abortive arrangements of
some years ago with Cleveland Cliffs;
the Japanese have had this order
“pencilled in” their books for a long
time. Recent negotiations by all parties
have been in full knowledge of it.
More important, as far as Charles
Court and his Development Ministry in
W.A. are concerned, there is no pros-
pect of the development of this BHP
pellet plant for export in South Aus-
tralia letting the BHP-CSR-Amax
group out of their obligation to build
a “secondary processing” plant in the
Mt. Newman iron-ore complex. (This
had originally been an obligation to
build a steelworks, but now that BHP
is building one at Kwinana, it has been
let off the hook for this at Mt. New-
man.)
The facts of the BHP Whyalla pellet
plant are that BHP had planned it (to
take advantage of material from the
Iron Baron area) in order to supply
its N.S.W. mills before BHP got so in-
volved in W.A. deposits. The logistics
of the exercise mean that BHP would be
just as well off if it shipped ore from
the West to N.S.W. and used a large
part of its South Australian pellet
capacity to fill its commitment to Japan
now that it no longer will have the
right to use Cliffs’ proposed pellet plant
in W.A. to process its Deepdale de-
posits. So instead of BHP’s contract be-
ing cause for concern, there are prob-
ably greater implications for the future
of W.A. iron ore in this month’s big
Hamersley contract which cut the price
of ore by 55 cents a ton from its first
contract to $9.37.
HAMERSLEY IRON’S latest price for
fines, announced as “unchanged” when
news of the contract was released, has,
in fact, turned out to be the lowest in
Australia and must, in Canberra, be
causing a wringing of the hands that
only recently lowered the price guide-
lines. Like the April, 1965, contract,
the basic price« is 12 U.S. cents per
ferrous unit, but penalties drag this
down considerably, as Sir Maurice
Mawby, chairman of Conzinc Riotinto
of Australia, acknowledged in Perth.
Hamersley hematite fines are being ex-
ported with an iron content “less than
63 percent,” Sir Maurice said, against
the 64 percent contracted. The Japan-
ese commercial Press has quoted
Hamersley’s estimate of average iron
content at 61.3 percent.
With penalties, a unit price for above
62 but below 63 percent would be
11.65 c to Hamersley, and this would
drop to 10.62 c if the Japanese commer-
cial writers are right, as they usually
are. These prices, for 64 percent fer-
rous content, line up against 12.06 c for
62 percent fines contracted by Mt.
Newman, and 10.75 c for 57 percent
limonitic fines offered by Cliffs.
Despite the Hamersley offer at such
a critical time, Cliffs seem set to have
their $ 1300 m pellets-and-fines offer
accepted this month (September). After
that, the difficult business of equity will
have to be thrashed out, with no final
carving up likely until Christmas.
A different angle on the Hamersley-
Cliffs competition is offered by Mr.
Lang Hancock, just back from the U.S.
He says Hamersley did not offer pellets
to Japan because this would have
allowed the buying cartel to play off
the two companies against each other;
this is the reason, he says, Hamersley
did not build their second pellet plant.
In North America, Mr. Hancock had
discussions with companies he hopes to
interest in the Hanwright Iron Mines
project in the Pilbara.


TEACHERS
ST. JOHN’S COLLEGE WOODLAWK
Situated at Lismore, N.S.W., within easy access of Brisbane, a boarding
school for 350 boys in pleasant surroundings invites applications for the
following positions for February, 1968.
1. SENIOR ENGLISH/HISTORY
2. JUNIOR SCIENCE/MATHS
Salaries are in line with Education Department scales. Permanency
assured on usual conditions. Write stating qualifications, experience, etc.,
and give names of two referees to:
The Rector,
St. John’s College,
P.O. Box 6, LISMORE, N.S.W. 2480
THE
CROESUS
TOUCH
Don't shrug off
the trends
of rising prices
BY J. C. HORSFALL
A WHOLE LOT of people want the
economic pot to get nearer the boil and
a good many others in the business
jungle would seem neutral in their atti-
tudes toward the finer points of whether
this is wise, accepting without much
question the general economic weather
as it rolls in on them from day to day
so long as life goes on with an affluent
swing. Anyway, there’s not much point
in kicking against the pricks, abstract-
ing one’s thinking from the policies set
the economy by the Government these
days. This is specially so this year, now
the Federal Treasurer has given the
green light to the business world to go
ahead and grab all the resources it can
get over the Government’s still very
much alive body.
Given this lead, a realist has to think
in terms of how to keep the consump-
tion ball rolling, of how to get industrial
investment out of the slough, about such
things as building more office blocks,
plants for the paper and domestic wars,
of things people can eat and be merry
with. I’m not opting out of this. But
staying in I run headlong up against
the prices question and I don’t much
like what I see. The portents for in-
flation are clear enough for me already
without inviting moves, as some people
are, to put more steam in the pipes of
consumption and private investment.
Even without them, the ground work
has been laid for lifting the whole
economy on to a higher prices plat-
form.
Putting the seasonally adjusted rise in
unemployment in August alongside the
persistent underemployment of indus-
trial capacity as revealed in the latest
ACMA-’Wales survey, one might be
tempted to go along with those advo-
cating new moves to marry idle men
with idle machines. It might be argued
that only thus will industrialists, seeing
a busier prospect, be persuaded to bring
more zest to their fixed investment and
entice this reluctant lump in the indus-
trial mix more fully into the general
economic play.
The fruits of this tree are not for me.
With employment pretty full already I
prefer to see the revival of investment
come in its own good time, because, in
the result, a much better balance can
thus be achieved between the available
work force and the means for its
employment than by a forced march
spurred on by consumption stimulants
and by the lightening of interest rate
packs.
There’s little doubt that in current cir-
cumstances it would be quite feasible to
try to get a better and quicker response
from fixed investment, say by lowering
long-term interest rates or by stimulating
effective demand more than the Budget
contrives to this year. Whether the
attempt would be successful in face of
other contrary elements going to make
up investment expectations one cannot
say, but it could be officially contrived
to get fixed investment moving faster.
The basic trouble with this sort of
approach is that such steps would almost
certainly sharpen the already disturbing
upward point in prices, not only con-
sumer but also wholesale prices. This, to
my mind, is at the heart of the matter.
It can be conceded that the 5 percent
annual rate of rise in the consumer price
index in the June quarter came rather
out of the blue (the index’s rise in the
March quarter wasn’t nearly as steep).
Taken, therefore, in isolation, the jump
in the June quarter was not a decisive
gauge of the strength of the underlying
pressures on the price level. It would
be as foolish to overstate this strength
as it would be to play it down in seek-
ing policy answers. Yet, on the most
recent evidence, it does seem as if the
underlying pressures are more deep-
seated than generally realised.
One notices, for instance, that,
although import prices have been fairly
steady for a long time, in July the
wholesale price index for basic materials
and foodstuffs principally home pro-
duced advanced by 1.4 percent in a
single month, giving an alarming an-
nual rate of increase (not that the re-
sulting figure should be taken all that
seriously). Anyway, over the twelve
months this index rose by 5.2 percent,
and its upward march has, it seems,
been accelerating quite fast.
This rising trend in wholesale prices
cannot simply be shrugged off. It repre-
sents high pressure on industrial costs
just as surely as the big rise in wages
over the past year or so. Other things
being equal, it is bound to show up in
consumer prices and has been doing so
in recent months to an increasing degree.
It helps to explain part of the big rise
in the money value of retail sales in
recent months, and, as is evident from
the July retail sales figures which on a
seasonally corrected basis were down on
June’s, its impact in that month was
particularly strong.
Rising retail sales have been put up
as the main hope of getting the re-
quired revival in private fixed invest-
ment and, if as shown by the July
figures they are slipping back from the
peak, the hope of investment catching
alight from them could well be disap-
pointed, at any rate for the present,
in default of further efforts being made
to swell income generation and give
industry more orders. However, there
has always seemed something wrong
to me at a time when the Government
is engaged in carrying out the biggest
peacetime defence program ever in
this country that the drive to get in-
dustrial capacity fully employed should
have to depend on stimulation of con-
sumption. For that reason, coupled
with the need to divert more of the
defence effort into local factories, I
don’t look on the possibility of consumer
spending lagging as an unmitigated
tragedy.
When defence is demanding our
main economic attention (or should be),
it would be a mockery if an overheated
economy in 1968 (as now being
scouted by, among others such as AUC,
Sir Roland Wilson, chairman of the
Commonwealth Banking Corporation)
was to be largely the result of efforts
to keep consumption expenditure
topped up. Actually Sir Roland sees
the revival in consumption spending
continuing, perhaps at an accelerated
rate later in the year abetted by a pos-
sible rise in the propensity to spend, in
itself a hint that Wilson is also expecting
bigger price rises. So the less we talk
about new spurs for consumption and,
except in the context of defence and
long-term development, about forcing
private fixed investment (in itself a
big generator of effective demand)
the better.


m
K
NO FIXED TERM
Make your savings grow. Earn a
handsome 6% p.a. net (current
rate). NO FIXED TERM means
your investment plus dividend is
readily available for withdrawal.
There are no deductions. Your
dividend is paid twice yearly.
Invest for 1 month, 1 year—or any
period. Remember it’s a NO FIXED
TERM investment. Your Security is
backed bys3l million assets.
Write for brochure.
The Progressive
Building Society
TY
'tyrm v\%-
ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward General Manager
Head Office: Co-operation House,
36 Ormonde Pde., Hurstville, N.S.W.
Phone 57-0201.
City Office: 82 Elizabeth Street.
Phone 28-2801.
Miranda Office: 551 Kingsway.
Phone 524-6466.
Parramatta Office: 167 Macquarie Street.
Phone 635-4574.
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office
Please send free comprehensive
literature to:
NAME:
ADDRESS:
8V434
SPECULATOR’S
DIARY
Advice on BHP,
then to a
short-term joy
HAPPINESS IS different things to dif-
ferent people. To investors (at the
moment) it is BHP. To them it is what
Cassius Clay said he was: “The great-
est.” And great is right! What other
gilt-edged stock has more than doubled
its price in the 12 months between its
last two annual general meetings? And
what other stock keeps coming up with
an unending stream of sensational-type
news which never allows its price to
slip or be stagnant for more than a
few weeks at a time? No other. BHP
is king.
Is it really? According to the latest
publication of the U.S. “Fortune” direc-
tory of big businesses, it is merely a big
fish in a little pool. It ranks as only
51st in size in the world’s top 200
companies outside the U.S. In Australia
the “Delfin Digest” gives the local rat-
ings. It awards BHP two gold and one
silver medal for its performances on
the home field. The gold medals are
for “having the largest net profit in the
land,” and “for employing the greatest
number of people.” The silver medal
is for being runner-up in “the largest
shareholders’ funds” event (won by
the N.S.W. Department of Railways).
Well, now we have an idea what
BHP is as far as size is concerned.
This, however, means nothing to the
investor, other than interesting chit-
chat for cocktail parties. What does
mean something is the ever-increasing
number of predictions by security
analysts, journalists, and university dons
that BHP is destined to hit the $2O
mark before any of us are very much
older. Although these estimates neces-
sarily include a fair proportion of guess-
work, the possibility does not seem at
all too remote to discount. My advice
to term investors is that BHP still has
a lot of happiness to dispense.
For short-term joy I suggest Trade
Credits. This company, with its un-
usually strong board, including its man-
aging director, Mr. W. G. Parry (who
has been with the company since its
inception), has been in the finance busi-
ness since 1936. Initially it was heavily
involved in the hire-purchase business;
policy has since changed. Short-term
loans, secured on property mortgages,
are now the big thing with the com-
pany. Its entire business is made up
almost exclusively with this type of
lending. And it all seems to work out
quite well as far as profits are con-
cerned. In 1963 the company earned
a net profit of $88,212, which repre-
sented 18.1 percent on ordinary capital.
In the year just ended, profit had
bounced up to $223,363 and the earning
rate was a very healthy 30.1 percent.
Last year also saw the first increase in
dividend for 13 years. It went up from
15 percent to 17.5 percent.
These are not the reasons I bought
the stock, although I must admit if they
had not tallied up I would not have
acted. The main reason I bought was
because of the company’s decision to
split its $2 shares into four units of
50c each. Traditionally, this type of
move gives a stock a greater appeal to
a greater number of people. On the
basis that history will repeat itself and
that the shares will become worth pro-
portionately more after they are split
into four, I bought 100. The shares
cost me $4.75, which is cum the final
dividend of 20c (due in October). They
yield 7.4 percent which also impressed
me.
Sales for the week were Containers
and Marrickville Holdings. Both were
profitable. Containers’ record result
helped its price along to a stage where
I was happy to retire my interests for
the time being. However, with Austra-
lians currently using 250 cans per per-
son per year, and still reaching for
more, this stock will probably be worth
looking at again sometime in the future.
With Marrickville, the prices have
gone up because the Press has given
the market some timely reminders of
what the company’s chairman predicted
way back in March. He estimated that
sales for 1966/67 would be well over
$2 million higher than the $44 million
of the previous year. Further, he pre-
dicted that profits would also be higher,
in line with sales. The price rise of
around ten percent, which was the
result of these reminders, gave me a
good profit on the stock. So, rather
than take a chance (small though it
may be) with the final report, I got
out.
BOUGHT
100 Trade Credits $4.75 $484
SOLD
200 Containers $1.93 $378
200 Marrickville $1.20 $235
The old account is still amazingly
in credit $219 to be precise.
Shares Company Date Cost per Price
Bought Share
400 Hanimex 16/14/66 1 40 1 55
1000 Mid-East ctg. 1/2/67 31 31
200 Dunlop 7/2/67 1 45 1.80
300 Wormald 8/3/67 .75 65
500 T. C. Whittle 10/3/67 .70 .69
200 Allied Mills 26/4/67 1.69 1.50
400 General Credits 27/4/67 .62 .69
200 Chamberlain 3/5/67 1.67 1.82
200 Goliath Holdings 24/5/67 2.16 2.10
200 Bradford Cotton 6/6/67 .58 .67
200 R. W. Miller 14/6/67 1.35 1.38
150 E.Z. Industries 20/6/67 2 90 2 93
400 Hamersley 25/7/67 4.98 5.72
200 Howard Smith 25/7/67 3.34 3.70
300 Ralta Holdings 25/7/67 .56 .63
300 William Adams 17/8/67 2.12 2.30
200 Stegbar 17/8/67 1.46 1.55
200 Thomas Nat. Trans. 17/8/67 1.30 1.32
200 Westralian 29/8/67 1.17 1.20
500 Concrete Ind. 30/8/67 .47 .42
300 Thiess 5/9/67 2.18 2 47
200 Consolidated Rutile 5/9/67 1.15 1.35
2500 Amalg. Pet., .41 pd 13/9/67 .08 .10


WILD CAT PAGES
Nationalism and Mount Morgan
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
By JASON
THE PATRIOTIC fervor over Peko-
Wallsend’s counter-offer for Mt.
Morgan Ltd. should not blind every-
one to the consequences of frightening
off the powerful combination of foreign
investors who had wanted to take a
51-percent stake in this Queensland
copper-gold-pyrites-coal company.
Whether or not Mt. Morgan shares
are worth the $4.90 of the Peko-
Wallsend share exchange offer or only
the $4.40 of the first Power Corpora-
tion and associates’ cash bid for half
everyone’s holdings, or the better-than
$5 bid that the market expects, is not
really important. The important point
is that it would be a serious blow in-
deed to the future of our mineral
search if excessive outbursts of national-
ism denied us the opportunity of draw-
ing on foreign funds and skills for the
development of our resources. The ideal
situation in the Mt. Morgan affair
would be for the Power-Oppenheimer
group to take a minority stake in the
big new Peko-Morgan enterprise, so
that there could be a useful mixture
of Australian control and foreign in-
vestment. We need both.
We cannot pretend that we are not
part of a world where capital flows
from one country to another, where
international organisations exist. There
is no doubt that we do need some assist-
ance in cash and capabilities from
abroad; the only dispute is over the
extent to which we should sell ourselves
to get it. The Power group bid would
have made considerable sums available
for the mineral search in Australia (its
initial financing plans indicated' that
Power Australia would have had some-
thing like $7 million left over for future
investment after buying its 51-percent
stake in Mt. Morgan at $4.40 a share).
Peko-Morgan could not come within a
bull’s roar of putting up that sort of
money for financing future develop-
ment.
This is one case where we should
try hard to get both local control and
foreign investment, to have our cake
and eat it. The best of all worlds is
possible, provided personalities and self-
interest do not prevent it. Why should
Peko-Morgan limit the scope for their
companies by keeping foreigners out
altogether? Why should Power-Oppen-
heimer insist on a controlling interest
before taking a big stake in Australian
resources? It is vital that we keep
control here (particularly in situations
where international considerations of
companies with similar mines in other
countries may conflict with Australia’s
best interests).
But it is also vital that directors of
both Peko-Wallsend and Mt. Morgan
recognise what is clearly in the best
interests of this country. The sooner
they get around a table with the Power
men the better.
THE CHARTIST provides the follow-
ing additional comment on two recently
examined stocks:
GOLD MINES OF KALGOORLIE:
This stock showed promise of a rise
and was recommended in a recent issue
subject to volume confirmation. How-
ever, the well-confirmed 400 percent
uptrend was broken with the steep fall.
It is at present in a strong support
zone and the markets action over the
next few weeks should indicate its
future direction. The past history on
the chart shows that it is capable of
reversing trend very quickly.
HILL 50 appears to be breaking a
well-established uptrend. It would be
unwise to hold should it fall below
45 cents.
IN A STRIKING demonstration of
how wrong investors were in writing
down the textile industry, textiles are
showing an excellent set of results for
1966-67. And these are not simply
recoveries in profits; they include sev-
eral large leaps forward like Bonds
Industries Ltd., which looks an impres-
sive investment after last week’s 32
percent profit lift.
Brack and Bradford enjoyed record
profits, Felt and Textiles’ profit was
up, a remarkable improvement, Yarra
Falls resumed dividends after the heavy
loss of 1965, Prestige made a profit re-
covery with record sales, profit and
dividend of Woolcord Fabrics were up,
Australian Cotton Manufacturing made
a profit and paid a dividend after a two
year lapse and 1966 loss, and even
Courtaulds upped its dividend and
put on a relatively happy face.
So the results from other textilers
that have still to report, like Universal
Textiles Australia Ltd. (the old STP-
Tennyson merged group), should also
be excellent, despite the dull market in
its shares. The market appears to have
marked them down (to 80 cents to give
the handsome dividend yield of 8.1 per-
cent) largely because of the untimely
death of managing director Mr. E. J.
Yass last month. But this seems simply
another example of how the market has
been quite wrong about textiles so far
this year; by June this year (when The
Bulletin was pointing out that textile
shares were absurdly low) the textile
section of the Sydney share price index
had fallen from 189 in the previous year
to only 174 points. Yet the outlook had
improved considerably and most of the
interim reports had said so.
Bruck management suggested that
The Chartist says:
Investors holding TOOHEYS LIMITED should be rewarded for their patience,
as the stock now shows signs of breaking topside from the 1964/7 congestion area.
Once prices move above $1.25 on high volume, the base consolidation suggests a
target of approximately $1.85 for the longer term. Although the overall rate of
appreciation since 1960 could hardly be regarded as spectacular, there would be
very little erosion of capital and the stock could now be regarded as a growth
situation. Last sale price on 19/9/67 $1.15.


WE DON’T
MIND GETTING
OUR BOOTS
DIRTY!
In fact, at Austral-Pacific Fertilizers
we like it that way! Our boots were
made for working in the fields, in
the office, in the laboratory. We like
our work and we won’t be stop-
ping to shake the dust off our feet.
We've got the future planned. Sure,
we’re pretty new on the Australian
agricultural scene. But we’ve done a
lot of research, because without re-
search there’s no way of building the
future we plan. We’re making friends
with the men on the land. Our clients.
We have something new to offer them.
A new range of advanced fertilizers. A
new concept in service. A new growing
technique that is planned to improve
crops and increase yield. The way we
figure it, our future is out there in the
fields. We’ll get good Australian soil on
our boots . . . and that’s the way we
like it!
AUSTRAL-PACIFIC FERTILIZERS
LIMITED, 18th Floor, M.M.I. Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane. Phone 31 3076.
TOOWOOMBA SERVICE CENTRE
Cnr. Anzac Avenue & Alderley Road,
Harristown, Toowoomba.
austral-pacific
fertilizers limited
6048
their year was good (an excellent 40
percent advance on 1966 profit, three
times and more that of three years
ago) because there were no new elec-
trical appliances for consumers to spend
their money on. The advent of color
television, for instance (whenever that
may be), will drain off consumer spend-
ing from clothes and furnishings, they
expect. But given a fair dose of pros-
perity, consumers’ pockets can cope with
both these demands. And the outlook is
a fairly prosperous one.
THE J. FIELDING packaging group
has been mentioned here frequently as
a recovery stock and is now up around
the $4.95 mark after being as low as
$3.60 at one stage this year. But it still
has some way to go before getting back
all the lustre it had in 1964, when its
$1 shares were around $5. Its current
prospects are at least as good as in
1964, particularly now that the pack-
aging industry has settled down after a
couple of years of severe competition;
prices have been restored to a much
better basis and there is not too much
rocking the boat.
The significant feature of Fielding’s
latest result is that its 14 percent profit
rise came mainly from its traditional
packaging operations and not from its
extensive and most impressive share
portfolio. In fact, packaging provided
a 15 percent profit rise from the
previous year while income from Field-
ing’s listed investments rose by only
12ij- percent.
Nevertheless, the investment portfolio,
which is in the books at cost of $3.8
million but which was worth $6 million
at June 30 (and is no doubt worth a
darn sight more by now), gives the
company a special appeal; at market
values it represents $2.25 per share,
leaving the packaging interests valued at
only $2.70 by the stockmarket at the
latest price for Fielding’s shares of
$4.95. But for $2.70 an investor gets a
company that is earning 24 percent on
capital from its packaging operations
alone if its income from listed invest-
ments is ignored. That represents the
staggering earnings yield of 18 percent,
which seems a far more relevant figure
to have in mind than the present divi-
dend yield of 3.7 percent.
So far there is no sign that the com-
pany might be generous to shareholders
out of this massive investment portfolio.
It steadily added a further $461,000
worth of shares to it last year out of
cash flow, for the company pays out
only about half its 34 percent earning
rate in dividends. Nevertheless, share-
holders will get some joy this year from
a 1-for-10 bonus share issue. And sooner
or later, if the packaging industry con-
tinues the rationalising trend it has so
clearly set, there is every chance of
someone making a bid for Fieldings.
It should bring a nice price.


It’s an automated
world with planned
programme press
cutting by Samco-
Strong, the new
international
team for all cutting
problems.
Textiles, fabrics,
plastics, foams,
rubber, hardboards.
CO-STRONG
Pty. Limited
423 SMITH STREET, FITZROY
419 1609 419 1865
333 ABERCROMBIE ST., CHIPPENDALE
69 5957
3468
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RAYMOND JOHN BAILLIE. Take
notice that Patricia Ann Baillie has
filed Petition No. 2253 of 1967 for
divorce on the ground of separation
notwithstanding the facts and circum-
stances set out in a discretion state-
ment filed herein and seeks orders
for custody, maintenance, and costs.
If you wish to defend, you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street. Sydney, on or before the
3rd day of October, 1967. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. lan Duncan,
Knudsen & Co., solicitors, 403 George
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: FRANK RICHARD MARTIN, late
of Annersley School, Bowral. TAKE
NOTICE ithalt JOLAN MARTIN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1394
of 1966 on the ground of desertion not-
withstanding the facts and circum-
stances set out in a discretion state-
ment filed herein and seeks an order
for costs. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court. Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 20th day of October, 1967.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Messrs. Brady,
Gordon, and Company, Solicitors, of
149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A.
H. HARMS, Registrar.
The Melbourne market
Stegbar sparking in all States
ONE COMPANY to catch the eye in
the Melbourne market last week was
Stegbar Ltd., the locally registered but
Australia-wide manufacturer and trader
in window frames. One notices that
early in the week a pretty wide price
of 150-170 cents was being quoted, with
practically no trading, but toward the
end it narrowed and there were sales at
165. This could be the herald of a con-
siderably brighter future for the shares.
The company is a postwar product, be-
ing started as a partnership in 1946,
converted to a proprietary in 1955, and
then to a public company two years
ago with an issued capital of sl.6m. in
$1 shares, of which the vendors retained
one million.
When Stegbar was floated in 1965, all
the 600,000 $1 shares issued to the
public were taken firm by Potter & Co.
and E. L. & L. Baillieu. So it could be
assumed that they are now mostly in
solid oak chests, perhaps in the more
fashionable Melbourne suburbs un-
less, of course, the clients of those firms
were put off by the indifferent first
year’s results as a listed company, when
earnings of 14.1 percent failed to come
up to the prospectus estimate of 18.7
percent. That was for the year to
June 30, 1966, when the housing indus-
try to which the group sells its windows
'was not exactly sparking on all
cylinders. Anyway, the results for that
year were disappointing, even in those
circumstances, and marketwise the
shares were neglected as just another
one of those second-line stocks which
would pay for its keep and do little
more.
The spark in the news from the com-
pany last week was that profit moved
up 28 percent last year, so earnings
were pushed well above the prospectus
estimate and gave a 2.4 cover for the
maintained 10 percent dividend. The
only fly in the ointment last year was
the loss sustained by the operation in
Adelaide, where the housing industry
was in the doldrums from which it is
now slowing emerging. All the other
operations, which cover manufacturing
in four States (including South Aus-
tralia), made peak profits, with the
group’s growing hegemony and repu-
tation in aluminium windows the
major factor. Now the company reports
it has been going on to even greater
sales heights this year and is having
an encouraging response to several new
window products for which new manu-
facturing facilities are being erected at
the Melbourne and Sydney plants.
IT’S INTRIGUING that so few of
the company reports issued so far this
year have shown boards all that both-
ered about cost increases. Most chair-
men who’ve filled in the background
to, in some cases, very substantial profit
rises, and increased dividends, could
hardly have done so without a blush
in their flush trading circumstances last
year especially in the second half,
when rising turnovers weer the order
of the day and allowed them to bring
unused capacity into use. Rising costs
are something which all companies have
to take very seriously, though, so the
references to them even by those who’ve
come up with pleasing results are not so-
surprising.
Picking one out of the hat of Mel-
bourne chairmen moaning about them
last week, we have the lately retired
Lord Mayor, lan Beaurepaire, chairman
of Olympic Industries saying much of
his management effort is occupied in
curtailing costs and adding that it’s no
mean task, mentioning inter alia that
general wage increases are constantly
adding to cost structures without
adducing corresponding increases in
productivity. All firms are stuck with
that and there’s not much they can do
about it in the full employment
economy without losing their workers
to rivals prepared to meet the labor
market. But it is not only labor, says
Mr. Beaurepaire, who, while un-
doubtedly enjoying the shelter of the
tariff when selling a lot of his products,
is hit by the other side of the penny
in that protective tariff policies in effect
force the company to buy its raw
materials locally at prices well above
world levels. Anyway, Olympic coped
with the task pretty well last year and
lifted profit 15 percent.
HOWEVER, like Publishers Holdings
in Sydney, whose chairman complained
sales increases hadn’t caught up with
cost rises by the end of last year, a lot
of companies in the Victorian scene are
feeling the pinch, particularly in the
accommodation business. The worst hit
here, as revealed last week, was Clive-
den Mansions, whose board is so de-
pressed that it wants to go out of
business. Its manager has put in his
chips and the company is looking for
a buyer for its building in Jolimont,
from which many a gent from Lord’s
has stepped in the old days to watch
Warwick Armstrong hit sixes across the
park at the MCC. But even now you
can’t pick up the shares for a song, be-
cause, as the report says, the building
is worth much more than its written-
down book value ($209,151), only
$160,000 ordinary shares are in issue,
and they’re wholly clean of prior
charges and preference capital. Share-
holders’ funds at the latest count were
$261,124, so the break-up for the $2
shares would seem to look after the
current market price of $3.10 at which
somebody was seeking a seller at the
end of last week.


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
No. 18 of 1967
TO: WILLIAM BEECROFT.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife SHIRLEY
ANN LEE (formerly Beecroft) has filed
a Petition for dissolution of marriage
against you on the ground of separa-
tion. If you wish to defend the petition
or to institute proceedings against the
petitioner you must file an answer in
the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within 28 days from the
date of this publication. In default
of your so doing the suit may proceed
and .the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED the 13th day of
September, 1967. G. T. STAPLES,
Registrar.
Behind the balance sheets
The essence of Alf. Lawrence
IT HASN’T DONE much good for
the ice-cream makers, but the ice-
cream war has paid off for someone —
the producers of flavorings that go into
it. At a time when profits of the milk
products companies like Petersville and
Consolidated Milk Industries have been
reeling under the pressure of severe
price competition in the industry,
flavoring makers have done very well
as the lower prices have encouraged a
massive rise in consumption of ice-
cream —and demand for flavoring
essences. In the past three years, ice-
cream production has risen by more
than 50 percent and output of other
similar products has almost trebled.
Demand for flavorings and essences
has followed suit —certainly by more
than enough to offset the increased
competition in this business that has
come from overseas.
At the same time there has been a
solid growth in aerated waters (up 20
percent in the past three years) and
cordials and syrups (up 32 percent),
also bringing increasing demand for
flavorings and essences. Now that the
ice-cream war appears to be subsiding
a little as retail prices are moving up,
there is a prospect that the rate of
growth of ice-cream consumption may
well ease back a little. But the market
is now a very large one and should
continue to grow, to the benefit of the
flavoring industry.
Overseas invasion of Australian food
processing leaves precious few repre-
sentatives in that basic industry in
which Australian investors can put
their money. The companies which
serve the food industry, and beverages
too, have special appeal not only for
their innate merit but also for the
chance of an overseas bid.
What Keith Harris and Co. Ltd. is
to N.S.W., Alfred Lawrence Holdings
Ltd. is to Victoria, although they both
operate nationwide and shares of both
companies are listed in both Sydney
and Melbourne. Their activities are very
similar. Keith Harris describes itself
as a flavorings specialist, essential oil
distiller, manufacturing chemist, and
importer, while Alfred Lawrence is
described as an essence distiller, whole-
sale druggist, and manufacturing
chemist. The flavorings field is said
to be very competitive, and these two
companies, together with Mauri Bros,
and Thomson’s two subsidiaries, Blok
van Rooyen and Co. Pty. Ltd. in
N.S.W. and MBT Flavourings and Aro-
matics (N.Z.) Ltd. in New Zealand,
fight it out with several Australian
private companies, and one subsidiary
of the U.K. company Albright and Wil-
son Ltd.
While Keith Harris had need of
funds in the ’sos, and made issues at
par (but was then able to make four
bonuses in 5| years in the 19605),
Alfred Lawrence favored a big shell-
out by a one-for-two bonus in 1954
and then a huge watering of capital in
December, 1959, Formation of the
holding company gave shareholders
what amounted to a four-for-one bonus.
The exchange of 20 5/- shares for
each 20/- share, which formerly car-
ried a 20 percent dividend, was fol-
lowed by a multiplication of dividends
4J times, with the establishment of an
annual rate of 9 percent on the new
shares in 1960. Such a windfall is hard
to equal in public company annals.
Shareholders have benefited since from
dividend increments in most years,
bringing the rate up from 9 to 12
percent.
An 18 percent jump in profits in the
year to June 30, 1967, hoisted earning
rate to a more respectable 16.5 percent,
allowing dividend to advance from 11
to 12 percent. Nevertheless, the latest
result provides the largest dividend
cover since the holding company was
formed. The company has no need
of funds, the ratio of current assets to
June 30 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967
Working profit $OOO 325 351 363 392 465
Depreciation $OOO 50 52 41 46 48
Tax $OOO 105 110 136 136 169
Net profit $OOO 170 189 186 210 248
Earning rate p.c. 11 3 12.4 12.3 13.9 16.5
Dividend rate p.c. 9Vz 10 10 11 12
Earning rate on
shareholders’ funds 9.9 10 8 10.3 11.3 12.9
Current ratio 2.3 2.1 2.8 2.4 2.7
Fixed assets $OOO 1293 1322 1029 1116 1137
Dividend yield (a) 4.1 3.7 4.0 6.7 4.3
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 20 4 21.7 20 4 14 8 17 0
High price (c) 1.16 1.35 1.25 1.10 1.40
Low price (c) 1.05 1.14 .95 .85 .95
(a) End of September.
(c) Calendar year. 1967 to date.
Current price $1.40, yielding 4.3 % on divi-
dends, 5.9 % on earnings.
current liabilities has been particularly
strong over the past five years at over
two to one. In fact the company has
only $32,000 in outside borrowings
(mortgage loans due in 1970), no over-
draft, and $390,000 in deposits at call
and Government bonds.
From its Kensington (Vic.) head-
quarters, the company supplies its
“Blue Ark” flavoring essences which
go into aerated waters, cordials, con-
fectionery and foodstuffs, its essential
oils and foodstuffs colors, through ware-
houses in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
and Brisbane. The company makes
and distributes similar lines in New-
market (Auckland, N.Z.) from mainly
Australian raw materials. Export
markets in South-East Asia have been
fostered in recent years.
An unexpected but not entirely un-
related activity is publishing. Since
1882 Alfred Lawrence has published
the “Australian Brewing and Wine
Journal.” In May, 1966, filling a grow-
ing need, it brought out “The Epi-
curean” to help the public appreciate
good food, good wine, and good flavors.
Directors admitted in 1967 that this
was pot fully established and that trade
journal publishing experienced difficult
conditions. Other productions are
“The Leather Journal,” “Australian
Food Manufacture,” and “The Graphic
Pictorial.”
In October, 1962, the company
bought the Craftsman Press Pty. Ltd.,
a Melbourne printing company, for the
issue of 210,644 50c shares. It sold
out of this by 1965 balance date, pro-
ducing the very liquid cash position
for 1966 which still exists. The com-
pany is in an excellent position to take
over one of its flavorings competitors,
if it felt so inclined. At present it is
not making its funds really work and
until it makes another investment the
company’s results will not be as good
as they could. Despite this, it has
managed to lift its earning rate by 50
percent in the past four years.
As most of the earnings are distri-
buted to shareholders, visible reserves
are not enormous and the earning rate
on shareholders’ funds is 12.9 percent.
Capital reserves are not very large, and
freehold land and buildings of this old-
established business, dating back to
1882, were revalued in June, 1962, so
there would not be great scope for
fresh revaluation for some years yet.
Nevertheless, it is now eight years since
the company made its last bonus share
issue, and while investors can depend
on the company’s tradition of higher
distributions where possible, there seems
every prospect of further eventual
capital benefits. As a smallish com-
pany, it does not often receive much
market attention, but a leading broker
in its home State has thrown a spot-
light on the stock, which subsequently
rose to the current record price of
$1.40 where it has a dividend yield of
4.3 percent. This price is nearly 60
percent above this year’s low, so there
could be some scope for a small price
reaction. Nevertheles, it does not seem
too high a price to pay for a stock with
such growth potential.


Security analysis
No quick salvation yet in
Dunlop’s diversification
ONLY A FEW DAYS ago, Dunlop
Rubber Australia Limited issued its
preliminary statement of profit for the
year to June 30, 1967. Although the
figures are subject to final audit, it is
apparent that a worthwhile recovery
has been made and the statement says
that “The intensive drive for internal
efficiency and economy during the
year contributed substantially to the im-
proved results . . .” Net profit before
tax and depreciation increased by a
remarkable 31 percent and, in absolute
terms, it has recovered to the 1964/65
level.
The statistics for the past five years
are as follows:
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Net earnings s’ooo 3642 4274 4662 4768 3511
Ordinary capital
$ million 18.4 18.4 29.2 35.2 39.3
Ordinary shareholders’
funds $ million 35.8 38.2 58.2 70.7 70.7
Earnings %
Ordinary capital 19.8 23.3 16.0 13.5 8.9
Ordinary SHF 10.2 11.2 8.0 6.7 4.9
Tax % pre-tax profit 39.2 39.1 43.3 40.6 35.4
Depreciation % plant 23.5 25.2 25.8 24.8 23.4
Current ratio 1.7 1.6 18 2 1 2 4
Proprietorship % 65 63 71 74 69
Per share
Net tangible assets
cents 195 208 198 180 180
Earnings cents 11.6 13.6 13.7 12.2 8.0
Dividends cents 5.9 5.9 8.4 7.6 8.0
Share prices—cents
High 255 301 295 220 165
Low 184 199 205 155 110
Comparative figures for 1966/67 are
not possible, because no details are
given in the preliminary statement of
any capital profits or losses included
in the profit for the year nor of the
interests of minority shareholders in
the group profits. Last year, a loss of
$25,580 on the sale of fixed assets was
charged against profits before arriving
at the comparative figure for the 1965/
66 net profit shown in the preliminary
statement for 1966/67, as was $287,080
for expenses on an unsecured note
issue. In 1965/66, the interest of out-
side shareholders was $118,990. This
means that to arrive at the figure of
$3,511,000 for net earnings the follow-
ing adjustments had to be made:
s’ooo
Group net profit for year 3503 (1966/7 —5323)
Add—loss on sale of
assets 26
expenses of note issue 287 313
3816
Less —Minority interests 119
Preference dividend 186 305 (1966/7 —186)
3511
There is no way of estimating what
the amount of profits or losses on the
sale of fixed assets might be, but the
amounts involved have been relatively
insignificant over the past five years
and it is safe to assume that there
have been no further major expenses
in capital raising. On the other hand,
there could have been a fairly sub-
stantial increase in the interests of
minority shareholders, because a 51
percent holding in Frank O’Neill In-
dustries was acquired during 1966/67.
This company earned $136,000 approxi-
mately in 1965/66 and is believed to
have done even better this year. This
suggests that minority interests could
have reached a figure of $200,000, as
other interests were acquired during
1966/67.
Nevertheless, it seems that, even after
making an adjustment for the rather
low tax provision (in relation to the
disclosed pre-tax profit), per share
earnings have increased by about 37|
percent to 11 cents per share. The
dividend rate has been increased by
a half cent .per share to 8J cents, so
the dividend cover, for the ordinary
dividends, is about 1.4 times. On the
basis of the last sale price of $1.77,
the dividend yield is 4.8 percent and the
shares are selling at about 16 times
earnings. In other words, Dunlop Rub-
ber is again being classed as a growth
stock.
In the articles of the past two weeks,
an attempt has been made to estimate
the likely future growth in profits and
to relate the present price to earnings
per share (estimated) five years ahead.
A similar exercise is not possible in
this case. The activities of the Dunlop
Rubber group can be separated into
not less than six divisions. They are:
Automotive producing tyres, tubes,
fan belts, and other rubber parts used
in vehicles as well as automotive and
industrial batteries; Industrial Products
producing conveyor belting, insula-
tion materials, tubing and piping, rub-
ber mouldings, and various other pro-
ducts; Footwear and Garments pro-
ducing various types of footwear, soling,
and fashion, casual, and industrial
clothing; Flooring producing tiles
and sheets in rubber and vinyl and syn-
thetic rubber roofing material; Sporting
Goods producing golf clubs, balls,
and other equipment and tennis, squash,
and badminton racquets and balls, and
Dunlopillo producing foam (rubber
and synthetic) mattresses, pillows, and
cushioning material, innerspring mat-
tresses and bases, lounge and theatre
furniture.
The first five are all divisions of the
parent company and are complemented
by groups of subsidiary companies, e.g.,
Dunlop Tyre Service, X-Press, and
Tyresoles complement the automotive
group, as does Marshall Batteries. John
Bull Rubber Co. (Australia) comple-
ments the industrial products division
and Slazengers, Ace Footwear, and
Trilby Footwear the sporting goods
division. Clearly, there is a wide range
of products which serve a fairly wide
market and we have little indication of
the importance of each division in
profitability or even in sales.
The fact that the company discloses
its total sales revenue does not really
assist the analyst in making any future
projections, largely because the relation-
ship between total sales and net trading
?rofit has been so variable:
ear to
June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Sales
$ million 127.5 130.4 142.2 162.1 171.0 193.8 197.5
Trading
profit
$ million 8.2 8.0 9.5 10.5 12 0 12.1 9.8
Percentage 6.4 6.1 6.7 6.5 7.0 6.3 5.0
The preliminary report did not give
the sales figures for the whole of
1966/67, but merely makes the state-
ment that “Group sales to outside cus-
tomers were increased notwithstand-
ing the continued inflow of low-priced
goods from overseas countries and
vigorous marketing competition from
other Australian manufacturers.” The
percentage of 1966/67 cannot then be
calculated until the annual report is
available, but I very much doubt
whether it will assist in any way in
coming to any conclusion regarding the
trend in the average margin. Even if
it was thought that such a trend was
discernible, it would have to be realised
that any change in the “inflow of low-
priced goods from overseas countries”
or in the “vigorous marketing compe-
tition from other Australian manufac-
turers” could produce quite marked
changes in the average margin. As we
assume that this competition from both
local and overseas manufacturers is
mainly in the area of tyres, and as we
also assume that tyres are still by far
the major item in Dunlop’s group sales,
one might tend to conclude that any
local rationalisation, accompanied by
raised tariffs, would raise the margin
very considerably. This would be a
correct assumption.
It is quite clear that this margin on
tyres was affected firstly by imports of
Japanese tyres and secondly by the
entry into the local market of U.S.
Rubber and Firestone, who have both
acquired local companies. An aggravat-
ing factor during 1965/66 would have
been the fall-off in new vehicle registra-
tion; no doubt in due time all these
problems will be overcome. Even so, I
would expect tyre manufacturing to
fall into the same class as paper manu-
facturing in that it will be profitable
only with heavy protection and with
substantial rationalisation.
It could be that Dunlop’s diversifi-
cation program will be its salvation
over the next few years, but the
acquisition of a number of small, even
though highly profitable, subsidiaries
will not compensate very quickly for a
substantial drop in the trading profit on
the volume line, tyres.
At current prices it seems that the
market is expecting growth in earn-
ings per share over the next five years
of about 7 percent per annum. This
would seem to be rather more than the
growth that is expected in the number
of motor vehicles on the Australian
roads, and it must be assumed that
Dunlop is still very dependent on the
automotive industry. It is perhaps pos-
sible that further improvements in
efficiency may produce the required
growth in earnings per share, but there
isn’t much room for a dramatic share
price improvement in the future.


Guess who heads Sydney’s
top-rating news service
and attracts 1,163,000
different people each week?
You're right, it’s Brian Henderson.
The latest Anderson survey* places Brian Henderson
and the National Nine News on TCN-9 ahead
of any other news service.
What’s in it for you?
Well, take a spot on both Saturday and Sunday and
you’ll net a cumulative 42%. Take five, Monday
through Friday and you’ll capture a healthy 48%.
Seven nights a week is almost a blessing: a
cumulative 60%, no less!
Isn’t that good news, for your message?
*Anderson Analysis No. 8, July-August, 1967.
TCN-9
For bookings on TCN's National Nine News, contact
the Channel Nine representative in your state.
Sydney 43 0444 • Melbourne 42 1128
Brisbane 2 6660 • Adelaide 6 9322


AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Registered office: 550 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Address of the Chairman of Directors (Sir James Forrest) at the Annual General Meeting of Share-
holders on Wednesday, 20th September, 1967
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We have reached the stage in our proceedings where I should
like to address you on the affairs of the Company and in doing
so will refer to the results for the year which ended on 31st March,
1967, and to items of current and future interest.
Before doing this, however, I wish to express to you the regret
of Mr. J. C. Stewart and Mr. J. F. T. Grimwade at not being
able to be with us today. Unfortunately, Mr. Stewart had to be
out of the State and Mr. Grimwade is temporarily indisposed.
REVIEW OF ACCOUNTS
The 1967 Report to Shareholders which includes the Accounts
and Balance Sheet, has been in your hands for several weeks now.
There are various items in it to which I shall now refer.
The Group Net Profit for 1967 after providing for income taxes
was $11,061,090 which compares with $10,497,000 for last year. The
1967 proportion of income due to outside shareholders in partly-
owned subsidiary companies was $1,192,000 compared with $887,000
few 1966. The increase is a reflection of the improved results from
Malayan Containers Berhad and Australian Window Glass Proprietary
Limited in both of which companies other shareholders are interested.
From available profits of $9,870,000, shareholders will see on
page 12 of the Report that amounts have been set aside for
dividends, reserves and provisions leaving, with $4,538,000 brought
forward from the previous year, unappropriated profits of $5,585,000
to be carried forward to next year. Total General Reserves in the
Group stood at $32,149,000 at the close of the year, compared
with $29,684,000 last year.
During the year, Shareholders’ Funds were;
(a) increased by $5,022,000 of additional reserves and unappropriated
profits: and
(b) reduced by the transfer of $1,000,000 from Special Reserves to
provide against possible loss on the investment in Coramic
Australia Pty. Limited as mentioned in the Directors’ Report
at page 5.
Shareholders will recall that A.C.I. held a half interest in the
Coramic Company, our partners being Email Limited. The Coramic
Company has not been successful and arrangements are now being
made to merge the Company with the Australian subsidiary of
Richards-Campbell Tiles Limited, the well known English tile makers.
A substantial writing down of the value of our investment in
Coramic will be involved and it was for that reason that the pro-
vision referred to in the Directors’ Report was made. The Directors
consider that under the new arrangement reasonable profits should
accrue on the investment.
At the end of the year Shareholders’ Funds were $111,352,000
in the total of $172,572,000 for all funds employed in the business
of the Group.
The relationship of Current Assets to Current Liabilities has been
maintained at a satisfactory level with, at the close of the year,
Current (Assets of $55,991,000 covering Current Liabilities and Pro-
visions of $30,632,000. Included in the Liabilities is a provision
for estimated income taxes payable amounting to $12,035,000 of
which some $4,089,000' relates to taxes on income prior to the 1967
year but not payable until after 31st March, .1967. It will be
recalled that a similar situation occurs each year and is brought
about by our balancing on 31st March. As usually happens, all
assessments of prior years were paid during the first quarter of
the Company’s current financial year, that is by 30th June. The
increases which show in stocks and debtors over the year are associ-
ated with the increased volume of business and both items are
valued conservatively. Last year I mentioned that the average period
for outstanding debtors had been reduced. Overall, this situation has
been maintained but, in New Zealand, there is a trend lately for
credit terms to extend as one would expect in the generally increas-
ing restriction of credit in that country.
The Investments total at the end of the year was $18,032,000,
after making the provision with respect to Coramic Australia Pty.
Limited referred to earlier. There were minor changes only during
the year and it will be noted that the market value of those in-
vestments which are listed on Stock Exchanges remains well in
excess of their cost.
Since the end of the year, the Company has purchased one CD
million shares in Ampol Exploration Limited for $1,500,000 as an
investment in Australian oil exploration and development. As you
will know Ampol Exploration Limited is one of four shareholders
in West Australian Petroleum Pty. Ltd. which is working a proven
oil field at Barrow Island just off the Western Australian coast
and has other areas with prospects of oil and/or natural gas.
The gross investment in Fixed Assets this year was $15,130,000
and included outlays stated in broad totals on the following major
items:
(i) Plant additions at the works of Australian Glass Manufac-
turers
(a) in Sydney $1,300,000, and
(b) in Melbourne $1,200,000.
(ii) Completing the rebuilding and modernisation of the sheet
glass plant at Australian Window Glass Proprietary Limited
at Alexandria, New South Wales $1,700,000.
(iil) Additional facilities for plastics production $1,000,000.
(iv) Additional plant and improved facilities for the manufacture
of metal closures $1,100,000.
(v) This new headquarters building $1,400,000.
(vi) Engineering and technical equipment $600,000.
The remainder of the spending on Fixed Assets related to normal
replacements, modernisation and extension in accordance with our
object of keeping our manufacturing facilities up-to-date.
The funds to finance these various Fixed Assets came from inter-
nal sources, debenture stock and mortgage money as shown in the
Statement of Sources and Application of Funds at page 16 of the
Report.
The Fixed Asset total for the Group was $98,548,000 at the end
of the year and as mentioned in the Notes on the Accounts at pages
13 and 15 of the Report, includes pallets and crates hitherto classified
with Current Assets.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES ,
The Published Report includes a comprehensive review by the
General Manager on the operations of the Subsidiary Companies for
the year ended 31st March, 1967. Since that time there have been
some interesting developments and progress amongst the subsidiaries
and I shall now refer to them.
In July, we announced plans to form Consolidated Nucleonics
Pty Limited. This is a joint venture in which our interest is two-
thirds and that of Swift and Company Limited, one-third. Its
purpose is to expand the nuclear irradiation and oceanographic
industry in Australia, New Zealand and later in South-East Asia
and it will develop the use of nuclear electronic and irradiation
equipment in the fields of medicine, industry and exploration. Our
interest in this new venture is allied to some of the work carried
out in the A.C.I. Technical Centre and there are good possibilities
that the services it will have to offer will include the preservation of
foodstuffs by irradiation which is a proven practice overseas.
Later in July, a wholly-owned subsidiary named New Guinea Con-
tainers 'Proprietary Limited was registered in the Territory of Papua
and New Guinea. The plans for this Company, as the name
implies, are to manufacture glass containers and closures and
corrugated fibrehoard cartons for the local market and we are
now making a detailed study into the feasibility of setting up works
at Lae. As you can well understand, there are important prob-
lems such as material supplies, fuel, suitable equipment and labour
to be solved before starting construction and this will take time.
In Malaysia, plans are well advanced to establish a factory
to produce glass containers. It will be operated by a company to
be called Kuala Lumpur Glass Manufacturers Sendirian Berhad
which will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of Malayan Containers
Berhad. This, as you will remember, is a partly-owned subsidiary
in which our interest is 51.7% of the issued capital with 48.3%
held by the investing public of Malaysia and Singapore. The new
factory which will be at Petaling Jaya, on the outskirts of Kuala
Lumpur, is expected to commence production about mid-1968 and
will cater for the needs of the local market. Singapore Glass Manu-
facturers Company Limited will continue to supply its own market
and will expand its export activities.
At Bangkok, Thai Glass Manufacturers is expanding its capacity
and by this time next year will have its third glass making furnace
and associated equipment. The market for glass containers in Thailand
is strong and increasing.
The funds for these projects will come from internal resources
with, in the case of the new plants in Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok,
some short term finance from local outside sources.
In order better to co-ordinate the growing activities and develop-
ments in these areas which are of increasing interest and impor-
tance to us, we have set up at Head Office a South-East Asia and
Pacific Division within General Management and under the adminis-
tration of a senior officer of the Company.
Last year, I referred to plans to form a new subsidiary in
which St. Regis Paper Company of New York would become a
substantial shareholder. This has come to pass and the formation
of the company Amalgamated Packaging Pty. Limited is
mentioned in the Published Report at page 5. Our association with
St. Regis Paper Company is proving mutually valuable and the
future for our fibre packaging interests is one of solid growth. Dur-
ing the year, we had the advantage of a visit from senior officers
of the St. Regis Company. Construction of the Keon Park, Mel-
bourne factory is making good progress and some production will
commence before the end of 1967. By the end of the March quarter
of 1968, it will be operating as a completely integrated unit.
We have, as you know, other important links with leading over-
seas companies and on a recent visit to the United States, United
Kingdom and Europe, I was able to review our connections and
discuss developments of importance to the future operations of
several of our subsidiaries.
Sir Harry Pilkington, 'Chairman of Pilkington Brothers Limited
who are our partners in flat glass operations in Australia and New
Zealand, visited us late last year for discussions. This was greatly
appreciated by the Board and senior management.
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation of the United States are
our partners in the fibreglass industry. The 'Chairman of that
Company, Mr. Harold Roeschenstein, visited Australia a few weeks'
ago and the opportunity was taken to review the operations of
Australian Fibre Glass Pty. Limited and make plans for a major
expansion of its operations both in Australia and New Zealand.
Our corporate structure in New Zealand was re-organised early
in this financial year by bringing all wholly-owned operatiohs under
the ownership and control of one subsidiary company named A.C.I.
Operations (N.Z.) Ltd. It is operating through the following firms:
New Zealand Glass Manufacturers Company
Crown Crystal Glass
A.C.I. Closures
A.C.I. Plastics
Flexible Packaging Company
Laminex Industries
Hygrade Packaging Company.
This arrangement has more administrative flexibility than having
each business run by a separate company entity.
About a year ago, in conjunction with (Neill, Cropper & Co.
Ltd., we set up a small' equally-owned company called Gamite
Plastic Sales Ltd. to handle the selling and distribution of our
New Zealand plastic products. This is working well and formalises-
an association we have had with Neill, Cropper & Co. Ltd. for
some years.
HEADQUARTERS BUILDING
As you can see, we are well settled into this new building.
It is, of course, more costly than the accommodation we had pre-
viously occupied but this is outweighed by the great advantage of
having all our central administration of the Group at one location.
The areas which we planned to make available for letting are now
leased to good tenants.
PROSPECTS FOR THE CURRENT YEAR
The overall Group results for the first five months of the
present financial year are behind those of the corresponding period
of last year but are expected to recover for the full year and be
at least equal to those of 1966/67. There are various aspects of
our current operations to which I will now refer.
In Australia, the total turnover in the five months exceeds
last year’s figures but overall, increased costs of some of our
basic materials and fuels and the direct and indirect effects of
wage increases are more than absorbing the additional revenue.
Since the end of March, increases in wages and fuels alone have
added well over $1 million per annum ‘to our costs.
Narrowing profit margins have shown up in several of our glass
making, paper and plastics operations. Australian Window Glass
Proprietary Limited has an additional problem at present in com-
peting with low priced sheet glass imported mainly from China.
Russia and Italy. A dumping investigation on these imports is
proceeding under the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies)
Act.
’New Zealand Group results for the five months are ahead of
last year both as to turnover and profit but the downward trend
in some of the national economic indicators causes us to take a
cautious view of results expected for the remainder of the financial
year. At the same time, we do expect our New Zealand profits for
the full year to be approximately the same as 1966/67 which we
will consider to be satisfactory.
In Thailand, the turnover and profit of our glass operation
continue buoyant with the figures for the year so far running
ahead of last year. The result for the full year is expected to be
a little down on 1965/67, due solely to a scheduled partial cessation
of production whilst furnace repairs are being carried out.
Sales figures and profits for the five months of our companies
in Singapore and Malaysia are down on last year but prospects
for the full year are for a profit around the same as for 1966/67.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: KEITH JOHN WHITE also known
as JOHN ROSS. TAKE NOTICE
that INEZ VALERIE TRIMMER
known as INEZ VALERIE WHITE has
filed. Petition No. 2699 of 1963 for a
Decree of Nullity of Marriage and
seeks Orders for Custody and Costs.
If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 27th day of October, 1967. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. Serisier, Hawke
& Company of 1 Lord’s Place, Orange,
2800 or their City Agent, R. H. Rich-
ards, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, 2000. C. A. H. HARMS, Regis-
trar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ARTHUR ARNOTT. TAKE
NOTICE that ROSALIE ARNOTT has
filed a Petition Number 3875 of 1965
for Divorce on the ground of desertion
and seeks an order for costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 16th
October, 1967. You may obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
T. P. and J. LONERGAN, Solicitors,
266 Church Street, Parramatta, or
their city agents, Messrs. N. ROSEN-
BLUM and Co., Solicitors, 251-253
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: FRANCIS INSKIP. TAKE
NOTICE that DORIS MAY INSKIP
has filed a Petition No. 3610 of 1966
for Divorce on the ground of Separa-
tion and seeks an Order for costs. If
you wish to defend, you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
7th day of November, 1967. A copy
of the Petition may be obtained with-
out charge from Messrs. E. R.
ABIGAIL and CO., Solicitors, of 115
Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THOMAS ALLEN TIGHE, formerly of
117 Westbury Court, Kennington,
England.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
CORALIE TIGHE has instituted pro-
ceedings in the Supreme Court of
Victoria in Suit number 1645 of 1967
seeking a dissolution of her marriage
to you on the ground of desertion and
costs. UNLESS you file an Answer in
the Office of the Registrar, Supreme
Court, Melbourne, by the 10th
November, 1967, the case may proceed
in your absence. HERBERT TURNER
AND SON, Solicitors, 411 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Australia.
Speaking of affairs generally in Australia, it is quite apparent
that we are in a situation of growing business volume but ris-
ing costs and vigorous competition are making it more difficult to
maintain profit margins. This places an increasing responsibility
on management everywhere to ensure that all financial, physical and
human resources under their control are deployed in the most
efficient ways possible. In our own Company, as you know, we are
conducting an extensive programme of management training and
to provide for more management control information have Just in-
stalled two IBM System 360 computers to replace the two former
IBM 1440’5. To illustrate an advance in technical facilities, I
can mention that we have developed computer production of the
tapes which are used in the numerically controlled machine tools
operating at our Lane Cove Engineering works. We believe that
this application of the computer to assist in production is the first
of its kind in Australia. Besides this we are continually up-grading
our production facilities and broadening our base of operations
These objectives require investments of capital much of which is
provided from internal sources. However, our forward programme
of capital requirements is such that we expect to be raising more
funds next year. No decisions have been made yet as to just when
should f be d raised be sought nor to the best wa y which they
MANAGEMENT, STAFF AND EMPLOYEES
. J; n . the Directors’ Report, a reference was made to the death
in February this year of M>r. George Haile, who at the time was
n^ an ? Be Jnr,w the Company This was a sad happening lor
ail and I know that shareholders would wish to record their
appreciation of his long service to the Company and their sympathy
hls was succeeded by Mr. R. W. Brack who is
w i^h us ber ? today. The Board wishes to record its appreciation
,the way in which he has assumed his responsibilities. He is ably
by the Chief Executives of the various divisions, the staff
ptDcejs of the Company and all the people employed throughout
fho < r« your behalf, Ladies and Gentlemen and on behalf of
, tbe . ® oard - I am pleased to express thanks to them for their
loyalty and devotion to their work during the year.
Mining
New horizons at Westralian
THAT TOUR DE FORCE in Western
Australian and national mining, 58-
year-old Lewis Edgar Elvey, who,
though born in England, has spent most
of his life in a simple house almost on
the shaft head of the Great Boulder
mine, has brought the golden touch
with him to Westralian Oil while still
pulling nuggets out of the hat and con-
templating niceties in nickel around his
old Kalgoorlie stamping ground. The
first fruit of his assumption of the
Westralian Oil chair this year was the
posting of a record profit of $546,626
(previously $441,626) and a lift in the
dividend from 15 to 20 percent for the
year to June 30 last. All of this brought
once again the thought that the com-
pany should change its name to some-
thing more appropriate to its product or
at least leave “oil” off its end. It gave
up the idea of searching for oil on its
own account long ago; its only interests
in oil now are a few lazy leases.
After the painful process of getting
its mineral sands ventures off the
ground a number of years ago, Westral-
ian was well placed to join in the
good times for these minor metals
last year, when high prices were linked
with rising output of all three of
them. Its output of ilmenite, the main
one, rose from 73,350 to 75,558 tons,
zircon from 11,640 to 13,583 tons, and
monazite from 750 to 941 tons. This
trilogy accounted for most of the
company’s 15.2 percent rise in gross
revenue.
This year, output is geared higher.
From January on, in the case of ilmen-
ite, the target rate is 130,000 tons (of
which 70,000 tons will be premium
grade) a year. Throwing in non-
magnetic mineral concentrates, the
company has now contracted to buy
from its associate Western Mineral
Sands (whose higher payout helped
Westralian’s result last year). The
output of secondary minerals will also
rise substantially when the group’s
130,000 ton-a-year rate of ilmenite is
reached. Its zircon output will be up
to 20,000 and monazite to 1500 tons
a year.
All this has impressed the market
and the 50 cent shares have come up
from a low of 53 cents to 126 cents
this year. The tide has ebbed back
slightly since then on profit-taking, with
the price now a close 121-122 late last
week. The question is whether this
fully discounts the pleasant-looking
horizons Mr. Elvey sketched in at the
meeting, in his references to the com-
pany’s Yoganup deposits. Although
complex, he said, these had greater
potential than previously thought. His
points were that drilling ahead of the
open cut and to its sides had revealed
ore at much greater widths, with fav-
orable values, and that the base of the
deposit was found rich in monazite con-
tent. Two others were that a new outlet
for zircon sales had been developed in
Japan by medium of the Rasa Trading
Co., of Tokyo, and that there could
be a market breakthrough for leucaxene,
all of which has had to be stockpiled up
to this. It depended on whether samples
provided for potential buyers proved
satisfactory.
KING ISLAND SCHEELITE share-
holders are used to riding on the big
mining dipper. The shares have swung
between 250 and 385 cents this year
and are currently on the crest of a
wave in the latter region. They got off
to a flying start in January with the
company posting a 73 percent lift in
profit to $886,753 for the year to the
end of October last —■ a result almost
wholly attributable to the buoyancy of
wolfram prices over the period because
millings were down a fraction, albeit
yielding more concentrates (on a rise
in grade) with an increase from 1.190
to 1.269 tons.
Then, in April, the interim dividend
for the current year was increased to
12 as against the previous eight cents
(half being tax-free as before). In June
the company reported a lift in the
realised average price for its sales, a
slightly higher milling tonnage but a
fractional drop in grade, and also a
higher tonnage of concentrates together
with substantially bigger overburden
removal (246,240 as against 176,187
tons). It was a mixed picture and the
Please turn to next page


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LID.
Paid up capital
$25,000,000
m
DEBENTURE STOCK
I°/
2/o
10 YEARS
51% —l2 MONTHS
fDther rates and terms available see Pros-*
pectus for full details. Prospectus and application
form available from:
• BROKERS lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of
the forms of application attached to a
printed copy of Prospectus^
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
1251
Improve
the productivity
of your office with
the new, easy-to-use
Dictaphone
Europa
magnetic
dictating machine
For an obligation-free
demonstration, contact
the sole Australian
distributors:
COMMERCIAL
MACHINES PTY. LTD.
(A Group member of Business
Equipment Holdings Ltd.)
Melbourne: 329-7766, Sydney: 29-6537,
Brisbane: 2-3115, Adelaide: 51-6026,
Perth: 21-7002, Hobart: 3-3358,
Launceston: 2-4676.
o
TAPHOMt Guropa
248 3/B
market thought it took some of the gilt
off the gingerbread.
Going back a few months, at the
annual meeting in February the chair-
man, Mr. Clive Wallace Smith, gave
the first hint that mining might go
underground in place of the present
method of scooping ore from a great
big open cut. The snag in this, he said,
was that the ore at depth was dis-
rupted by faults and the extent of these
had yet to be assessed. What is more,
underground mining would put the
company up for a sizable wad of capi-
tal and other expenditure. It was all
very intriguing, but not quite hard
yakka. So it was all to play for at
that stage.
Now comes the board to say, in a
fresh message to the stock exchanges,
that it is quite pleased with its develop-
ment findings since the meeting. The
solid point is that the ore at depth
has been found to be much richer than
that in the open cut. The gap in the
picture is the absence of information
on the extent of faulting. Reports from
the island suggest geologists are having
a devil of a job getting an overall pic-
ture of just how much ore is available
and how consistently the strata of ore
lies at depth. The company itself re-
mains reserved on the prospects for
underground mining. This is right, in
the circumstances, though King Island
could be well worth watching.
Commodities
Moves to arrest
rubber's slide
NATURAL RUBBER prices have
slid dramatically since June. No sig-
nificant reversal of the trend appears
to be in sight. So the main producer
countries, and notably Malaysia, are
getting very worried. Malaysia has
initiated the forthcoming talks with
Ceylon and Thailand, but in the mean-
time is embarking upon protective
moves of its own.
A Malaysian Government suggestion
of selling direct to consumers is not
given much chance of success, nor,
traders believe, would it much assist
sales. However, Government purchases,
on a large scale, of spot No. 1 RSS
grade had a quick influence on the
markets. Prices improved almost im-
mediately. The intention is to continue
this type of support, although a very
large stockpile may not be necessary.
If that is so, its later disposal would
not disrupt the market.
In effect, rubber prices have been
declining (less rapidly than of late)
for more than a year. Output is still
hitting record levels, while consumption
does not keep pace. Most natural


Aluminium, ton
This
week
£ 196
Week’s
change
Year
ago
£ 196
Copper w.c. ton
£ 3913/4
+ £ 81/4
£ 413
Gold, oz.
252/103/4
+ Id.
252/41/2
Lead, ton
£82 9/16
£ li/s
£ 92 7/16
Silver, oz.
126V 2 d.
- 20i/ 4 d.
112d.
Tin, ton
Wolfram, unit
£ 11931/a
+ £91/2
£ 12211/2
342/6
+ 2/6
287/6
Zinc, ton
£ 96 7/16
+ £9/16
£ 965/s
Wheat, Aust. ton
£ 253/4
——
£ 28
Linseed oiil, ton
£ 1011/z
- £ 2
£ 461/8
Cocoa, 50 kilos
226/-
-5/3
184/3
Cotton, Am. ilb.
22.4d.
22.2d.
Rubber, lb.
15 ll/16d.
- 5/16d.
17%d.
Sugar, ton
£ 18
+ £ 1
£ 15
Wool, tops
64s, lb.
107d.
—
119d.
•the best climate
in the world*
£ #% ;
£ £
55 55 55 5555
:5: >:¥ 5
I 1 1 I
55 4:5 4
w
IZ7 XZJT
Cool air? Warm air? Filtered air?
A room or a skyscraper? Westinghouse
provides the best climate in the world.
Any size. Any situation. Anywhere in Australia.
im
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
EMAIL
AIR CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION DIVISION
A TbTALLY AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH.
t%S2IS* , S'7
neral
redits
$2,000,000 Debenture Stock
(Second Ranking)
,3 m>
6 TO 10 YEARS
i
Other rates and terms available
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed
with the Prospectus which may be obtained from: —
• lan Potter & Co., Underwriters • All recognized Stockbrokers
• All branches General Credits
• All branches of the Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
neral
redits
277 William Street, Melbourne. Ph. 60 0241
283 Clarence Street, Sydney. Ph. 29 3041
2597/F
rubber producers will have increased
supplies available this year at a
time of slow-down among the industrial
nations. America, too, has not stopped
selling from its stockpile, although
quantities have been reduced after pro-
tests from the Malaysian Government.
NICKEL CONTINUES to bring its
largesse to Western Mining Corporation,
whose earnings from this source could
go up by some 15 percent as a con-
sequence of last week’s increase in the
world price. The Australian price has
been increased by $125 to $lBBO a long
ton. WMC’s Sumitomo contract bears
an escalation clause bound to world-
producer price rises.
After some advances in U.S. and
Canadian prices, the world’s largest pro-
ducer, International Nickel of Canada,
fixed a new U.K. rate of £stg.773-10-0
a ton —an increase of £7l-10-0. This
comes less than a year from the last
producer increase. The other large
Canadian producer, Falconbridge, has
decided to move in the same way as
Inco, its charges to be effective on
October 1. Most other nickel producers
will automatically follow.
Sharply higher operating costs are the
principal reasons dictating Inco’s policy.
At the time of the previous increase,
the company observed that “prices are
reviewed constantly in the light of in-
creasing production costs and the min-
ing of high-cost low-grade marginal ores
needed to increase production.” Now
it explains that “basic considerations”
include “increasing costs of production,
the need for very great increases in
the output of nickel, the development
and mining of lower grade ores, the
effect on our customers, the need for
caution in contributing to inflationary
pressures, and very importantly also,
the long range effect of higher prices
on the uses of nickel and the continuing
growth of the market.”
That sounds quite a comprehensive
rationalisation of the price move, yet
Inco itself has had further complica-
tions. Earnings for the first half of 1967
have been lower, a vast expansion pro-
gram is in train —and the company had
to buy 100 million lb. of metal from
U.S. Government surpluses to keep its
customers happy, at no profit.
Users of nickel forced to buy on the
free market are, of course, paying much
higher prices. As mentioned in last
week’s Bulletin, immediate world de-
mand exceeds supply. The steel indus-
try, which does not necessarily require
pure metal, is having recourse to scrap.
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES


Share
Par
Div. -
Year
Week
Fri.
1967
Turnover
1 Yield %
Value
cents
ago
ago
close |Higb (Low |
Syd.
Melb.
Div.
Earn.
METALS
AND
OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
2 26
1.48
1.53
2.00
1.20
15,700
7,800
Ampol Exp.
.50
1.15
1.65
1.67
1 80
1.04
10,650
9,100
Assoc. Min.
.50
20
5.42
6.20
6 50
6.90
5.10
3,250
1,150
A.O.G.
.50
2 36
1.47
1.50
1.78
1.42
22,350
7,800
B. H. South
.50
11
2.60
3.53
3.68
3.85
2 57
24,900
29,200
3.0
3.6
C.R.A.
.50
8
5 38
8 20
8 15
9.98
4.94
12,625
16,810
1.0
2.3
C’wealth Min.
1.00
10
2 57
3.00
3 00
3 30
2.30
3,900
3,900
3.3
3.7
Cons. Gold
1.00
10
5 42
5.38
6 28
3 80
10,850
15,950
1.9
3.5
Hamersley
.50
6 95
7.26
7 50
4 06
4,250
21,930
K. 1. Scheel
.50
10
2.66
3 85
3.90
3 90
2.50
14,400
18,600
Mount Isa
.50
5
4.40
3.80
3.85
4 34
3.50
47,700
58,600
1.3
3.4
Mt. Lyell
.25
6 2
1.44
1.43
1 46
1 76
1.28
12,600
19,600
4.3
11.6
Mt. Morgan
1.00
22.5
2 62
4.40
4 98
5.02
2 65
166,594
89,650
4.5
14.1
New B.H.
.62
38
4.40
7.20
7 70
8 90
4 04
4,650
6,450
4.8
6.5
North B. H.
1.00
25
3.63
6.10
6.10
6.15
3.21
21,550
40,050
4.1
6.9
Oil Search
.50
.16
.36
.31
.37
.12
155,950 110,45C
Renison
.50
7.70
6.30
6.30
8.3C
5.95
950 1,750
Santos
.25
2.28
1.97
1 90
2.20
1.55
2,20C
100
West Min.
.50
10
5.92
22.30
22 80
22.90
6.30
15,700
44,930
0.4
0.6
Woodside
.50
.88
.79
.76
.97
.58
15,700
25,700
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4.3
1.04
.86
.87
1 03
.80
13,700
37,600
5 0
8.4
Adams, W.
1.00
12.5
2.02
2.30
2.28
2.40
1.88
5,700
2,400
5.5
6.9
Adel. Steam
.50
4
.69
.83
.84
.90
.55
5,100
6,400
4 8
5.7
Advertiser
.50
5
1.64
1.45
1.47
1.74
1.43
3.4
6.1
Allen, S.
1.00
10
1.72
1.85
1.85'
1.98
1.72'
600
5.4
8.5
Allied Mills
.59
6
1.60
1.58
1.55
1.83'
1.50
13,800
800
3.9
9.0
Amal. Chem.
.50
.74
.46
.46
.80
.45
6,200
6,600
5.8
Ampol
.50
5
.66
.71
.71
.80
.57
50,350'
55,500
7.0
10.2
Ansett
.50
5
.69
.75
.75
.75
.55
44,000'
40,600
6 7
12 6
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.50
1.15
1.20
1.35
.88
1,800
8,500
4.2
6 2
Assoc. Pulp
1 00
8
1.38
1.42
1.41
1 48'
1.28
14,050
37,900
6.4
8.5
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
5 44
7.00
6 90'
7.00
5.58
270
200
4.3,
5.7
A.'K. Cement
.50
5
1.19
1.07
1.06
1.12
.85
27,300
27,000
4.7
8.2
Aust. Chem.
1.00
10
1.70
1.85
1 87
1.93
1 .55
5,300
4,300
5.3
5.9
A.C.I.
1 00
10
2 76
3.58
3.49
3.70
2 81
37,800'
38,000
2.9
5.8
Aust. Fert.
2.00
16
3 85
3.80
3 70
4.60
3.00
100
800
4.3
8.9
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1 47
1.78
1.80
1 90'
1 46
9,400
2,100
4.2
7.4
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3 65
4.15
4.15
4.15
3.70
1,000
2,200
4 8
5.2
A.P.M.
1.00
9
1 50
1.50
1 49
1 75
1.39
76,392
43,800
6.0
7.8
A.U.C.
1.00
10
4 00
4.10
3 55
4 10
3.05
11,600
2 8
10.5
Bank Adel.
1.00
10
2 18
2 48
2 46
2.50
2 02
100'
1,000
4.1
5.4
Bank N.S.W.
2.00
20
5 04
6.06
6 10'
6 20
5.00
14,325
13,600
3.3
5.9
Bellambi
.50
5
1.70
1.60
1.70
2.05'
1 15
10,300
2.9
6 1
Berlei
1.00
15
2.40
2.68
2 60'
2.90
2.28
300
5.8
12.8
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.50
1.64
1.66
1.77
1.43
18,400
8,300
4 5
6 4
Bonds Ind.
.50
6
1.16
1.27
1.35
1.38
1.10’
31,800
5.2
13.3
Boral
.50
10
1 80
2.32
2.34
2 35
1.76
27,500
16,900
4.3
6.4
Borg Warner
1.00
1.65
1.75
1.78
1.85
1.38
5,200
3 4
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
.62
.68
.63
.73
.56
7,300
8,000
7.9
13.7
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.47
1.61
1.67
1.67
1.17
14,300
7,800
4.5
7.3
Brit. Tobacco
1.00
12
2 29
2 46
2.44
2.66
2.24
14,500
15,900
4.9
7.9
B.H.P.
2.00
18.6 1
5.86
13 45
13 35
13 80
6.20
254,623
255,400
1.4
2.4
Bruck Mills
.50
6.25
.68
1.06
1.03
1.08
.76
100
5,200
6.1
17.9
Burns Philp
1.00
10
3.54
3.95
3.97
4.20
2.64
18,550
6,000
2.5
7.5
C.U.B. “Z"
1.00
13
3 40
3 46
3.45
3.55
2 90
6,400
18,500
3.8
6 5
.50
7.5
2.45
2.12
2.02
2.38
1.95
39,850
10,900
3.7
8.0
.50
5
.60
.90
.83
.90
.58
12,200
14,500
6.0
11.9
'C’maine ‘Per.
1.00
18
5.98
6.30
6 30
6 60
5 66
650
1,100
2.9
6.1
.50
6.25
1.32
1.80
1.85
1 85
1.42
13,900
3.4
9.1
.50
7.5
.90
.72
.72
.89
.60
17,400
14,300
10.4
12.8
Coal Allied
1.00
.70
1.60
1.80
1.80
1.88
1.34
44,300
33,300'
3.9
10.7
Coles, G. J.
.50
5.5 1
1.22
1.20
1 18
1 26
1.11
48,450
90,900
4.7
6.9
C.S.R.
1.00
12.5
2.85
3.90
4 08
4.08
2 78
48,850
25,900
3.1
5.3
C.A.G.A.
1.00
10
1 46
1.47
1 52
1 54
1.33
4,550
2,600
6.6
9.9
C.B.A.
1.00
10
1 95
2 48
2 52
2.52
1.92
3,650
6,800
4.0
5.9
C.B.C.
1.00
10
2 05
2.70
2 70
2 76
2 09
10,350
1,000
3.7
7.7
Com. Union
.50
4.5
1.30
1.58
1 58
1.60
1.25
4,800
4,300
0.3
5.9
C.I.G.
1.00
11
2.57
2.75
2 80
2.80
2.05
5,400
5,700
3.9
5.4
Concrete Ind.
.50
2
.34
.44
42
.51
.14
63,650
23,500
4.8
10.2
.50
10
2.50
3.35
3 20
3 60
2 45
8,300
3.1
5.9
1.00
9
2.85
1.92
1.88,
1.98
1.50
7,900
15,400
4 8
7.7
1.00
4
.48
.65
63-
.80
.42
7,050
1,600
9.5
7.8
1.00
14
4.70
3.65
3.61
6.00
3.60
2,300
3 9
7.5
2.00
20
4.60
4.35
4 35
5.46
3.20'
700
3.7
12.6
.50
5
.80
1.03
1 03
1 04
.76
11,950
18,600
4.9
11.4
1.00
10
1.12
1.52
1 45
1.70
1 40
7,700
14,100
6.9
8.8
2.50
25.5
4 50
5 60
5 76
5.76'
4 70'
1,050
300
5.2
7.2
D.F.C.
2.00
24
6 30
5.80
5 80
6 30
5 75
4.1
9.4
1.00
10
1.69
1.62
1.56
1.92
1 45
5,200
6,800
6 4
9 4
1.00
8.5
1.18
1.77
1 82
1.90
1 22
16,800
53,400
4.7
7 2
E.M.I.
.50
9
1 95
2.75
2 80
2 80
2 20
1,800
3.2
8 1
E.Z Ind.
1 00
18
2.53
2 90
2 90
3 42
2 07
28,900
49,400
6 2'
7 3
Elders, G. M.
1.00
11
2.43
2.10
2 60'
2.71
2 10
38,100
6,100
4 2
9 6
Elec. “B”
1.00
7
.58
.86
.90
.90
.50
7,350
22,300
7.8
12 6
.50
4.5
.38
.69
.69
.70
.50
20,400
16,500
6 5
9 1
E.S.A.
2 50
14 69
5 30
5 89
4 50
250
3.5
7 5
.50
6 25
1.38
.77
.73
1.25
60
1,600
1,300
8 6
12 5
.50
8.5
2 25
2 16
2 18'
2 63
2 05
9,400
3.9
5.7
1.00
6
1.38
1 22
1.22
1.56
1.18
3,100
100
4.9
6 3
.50
5
.50
.60
.61
.61
.44
22,050
61,300
8.2'
10.7
.50
7.5
1.35
1.70
1.70
2.10
1.55
11,000
700
4 4
7.3
1.00
17.5
3.50
4.80
5.10
5.10
3.60
2,800
3 8
6 3
.50
4
.55
.60
.69
.70
.51
28,300
35,500
5 8
9.9
2.00
12
1.25
1.18
1 17'
1.48
1.14
5,350
3,200
10.3
16.6
.50
4.5
.75
.63
.64
.80
.57
2,600
22,900
7.0
13.2
.50
10
2 02
1.88
1.87
2 30
1.78
3,850
9,200
5.3
7.5
.50
6.25
1.42
2 03
2 12
2 12
1 54
9,100
4,400
3.1
6.1
1.00
10
5.06
4.95
4.90
5.35
4.60
6,300
1,900
2.0
5.6
.50
.20
.17
.18
25
.11
12,550
20,200
-Herald, W. T.
.50
15
4.33
5.12
5 1C
5.18
4 09
6,100
34,300
2.9
3.8
.50
.34
.50
.51
.55
.34
47,400
28,900
10.9
1.00
14
2 45
3.25
3 25
3 68
2.48
1.100
8,700
3.8
7.4
.50
5
1.15
.87
82'
1 02
.80
800
3,300
6 1
8 5
I.A.C.
.50
6
.85
1.08
1 04
1.121 .85
6.50C
19.60C
5.8
10.4
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
1.00
15
3.63
2.14
2.1C
2.21
1.72
15.05C
16,60C
3.6
4.8
.50
6 25
.91
.70
.69
1.1C
.66
13,350
7,800
7.2
7.7
.50
6.75
1.35
1 40
1 40
1.51
1.22
71.40C
15,500
4.8
8.3
1.00
12
3.52
2.70
2 85
4.2C
2.66
9,050
6,100
4.2
9.7
.50
.24
.19
.18
.24
.15
2,70C
9,10C
.50
7.5
1.86
1.78
1.78
1.99
1.6C
3,40C
5,10C
4.2
10.4
.50
12.5
1.45
1.10
1.05
1.5C
1.05
800
11 9
13.0
.50
5.5
.80
1.22
1.18
1.25
.80
8,250
1,200
4.7
8.6
.50
8
2.55
2.63
2 48
2 76
2 48
10,000
1,400
3.2
6.9
1 00
12
2 38
3 46
3 52
3 51
2 52
5,000
5,800
3.4
6.0
2 00
31.6
8 22
12 3C
12 75
12.801 8 12
5,450
1,250
2.5
2.5
MacRobertson
1.00
1.25
2.34
2 401 2 401 1.13
l,0OO| 5,700
2 4
Share
Par | Div. i
Value| cents
Year
ago
Week | Fri.
ago | close
| 1967
High |Low i
| Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
1 Yield %
Div.|Earn.
Marrickville
.50
7.5
1.12
1.15
1.18
1.24
.90
18,900
6,300
6.4
8.8
Mauri Bres.
.50
5.2
2.00
2.18
2.15
2.27
2.00
8,100
3,000
2.4
4.9
M. Nickless
1.00
12.5
2.60
2.80
2.78
2.90
2.50
800
14,700
0.4
0.6
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7.5
1.12
1.02
1.02
1.25
1.00
13,800
16,600
7.4
9.9
McPherson
2.00
16.6
3.60
2.98
2.98
3.45
2.00
8,300
11,700
5.6
9.1
Millaquin
1.00
14
2.55
2.70
2.65
2.84
2.45
200
100‘
5.3
6.3
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.64
1.40
1.40
1.68
1.30
6,100
2,300
7.1
15.6
M inster
1.00
20
2.95
1.58
1.50
3.30'
1.45
1,900
14,800
13.3
15.2
Morris, Philip
1.00
33
3.5
5.00
5.12
5.20
3.55
900
3,800
3.2
15.2
Myer
.50
8.75
2.96
3.88
3.90
3.95
3.02
14,350
67,500
2.2
4.8
Myttons
.50
6
1.40
1.35
1.40
1.45
1.16
3,700'
4.3
7.5
N.Z. Forest
1.25
9.5
2.78
2.61
2.70
2.75
2.42
8,152
5,400’
3.5
8.3
Nat. Bank
1.00
10 •
1.80
2.60
2.67
2.69
1.93
11,700
16,500
3.7
4.9
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2.26
2.50
2 47
2.55
2.15
5,250
9,400
4.0
8.1
Nat. Dairy
2.25
26.7
38.00
40.00
40.00
40.30
31.50
3.3
5.7
News
.50
5
1.39
2.41
2.40
2.43
1.56
4,900
4,200
2.1
4.6
N.Z Ins.
1.25
11.5
2.75
2.84
2.84
2.92
2.70
100
5.3
7.9
Nylex
.50
5
.64,
.93
.94
l.Ol
.70
6,450
24,900
5.3
6.8
Olympic
.50
5
.67
.88
.85
.92
.66
5,700
27,500
5.9
10.4
Optical
1.50
16
4.30
5.15
5.10
5.25
4.45
2,750
1,450
3.1
6.5
Overseas
.50
6
10.5
1.60
1.60
1.70
1.27
2,200
13,500
4.1
8.1
P.G.H.
.50
7
1.05
.88
.87
1.24
.83
9,950
7.5
11.8
Penfolds
.50
6.25
1.75
2.90
2.85
2.94
1.77
5,100
2.4
3.7
Peko
.50
9
2.32
4.87
4.75
5.18
2.00
91,625
29,700
19
4.8-
Perp. Trustee
2.00
18
3.60
3.00
3.10
3.55
3.00
500
5.8
6.8
Petersville
.20
2.5
.57
.38
.37
.55
.37
15,200
79,100
6.8
8.4
Peters, W. A.
.50
6.25
1.72
1.20
1.19
1.73
1.05
1,600
5.3
10.1
Pioneer Cone.
.50
7.5
1.28
1.35
1.33
1.38
1.11
18,000
10,200
5.6
9.3
Prestige
.50
6.25
.75
.92
.94
.95
.75
1,200
2,100
6 6
12. 9
Provincial Td.
.50
5.5
1.14
1.00
1.00
1.08
.92
2,300
5.5
8.9
Pye
.50
5
1.00
1.00
1.09
1.09
.66
700
100
4.6
11.5
Q'land Cement
2.00
30
7.55
9.05
9.05
9.10
7.20
2.4
Q’land Ins.
1.00
12.5
4.15
4.45
4.40, 4.65
3.98
2.8
7.0
Q’land Press
1.00
16
5.00
4.90
4 85
5.05
4.30
800
3.1
6.2
Reed
.50
7
1.52
2 00
2.03 2.15
1.45
3.4
8.6
Repco
.50
7.5
2.02
2.35
2.35
2.39
1.97
11,950
.24,800
3.2
5.2
Rocla
.50
7.5
1.71
1.87
1.85
1.98
1.62
100
19,400
4.1
5.9
Rothmans
1.00
14
2.60
1.89
1.85
2.67
1.63
8,600
9,100
7.6
10.6
S. A. Rubber
.50
5.62
.90
1.00
98
1.08
.89
1,000
500
5.7
8.7
Schweppes
.60
5.5
1.50
1.50
1.48
1.71
1.43
300
1,900
3.7
6.1
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2.53
3.00
3.00
3.02
2.95
2.5
8.0
Simpson Pope
.50
.26
.32
.30
.38
.24
800
3,200
3.3
10.2
Sleigh, H. C.
.50
5
.63
.68
68
.69
.55
24,400
43,500
7.4
9.4
Smith, How.
1.00
10
2.52
4.00
3.80
4.02
2.60
9,400
3,800
2.6
5.2
Softwood
1.00
10
2.50
2.00
2.00
2.48
1.78
800
700
5.0
16.6
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.25
14.16
3.65
3.95
4.00
4.00
3.26
10,400
4.2
7.2
Steamships
.50
5
1.08
.64
.63
1.08
.55
8,000
3,300
7.9
16.2
Stedman, J.
.50
7.5
2.07
1.60
1.60
2.00
1.2C
2,600
4.7
7.5
Swan Brew.
.50
6.5
2.43
2.72
2.70
2.72
2.22
8,300
21,300
2.4
4.2
T arax
.50
5
1.22
.79
78
1.17
.77
600
2.70C
6.4
7.1
Taubmans
.50
8
.76
1.13
1.13
1.15
.97
3,910
1,500
7.1
8.2
TV Corp
1.0
20
3.0C
4.20
4.35
4.45
3.18
6,000
5,000
4.6
5.3
Thiess
.50
5
.92
2.47
2.6C
2.61
1.02
92,500
l.S
6.8
T ooheys
.50
4.5
.99 1.15
1.13
1.15
.95
30,750
4 0
6.4
T ooth
1.00
16.25
5.08
5.00
5 05
5.10
4.76
11,325
85C
3.2
4.5
U.E.B. Ind.
.63
5.77
1.25
.92
.92
1.28
.91
3,500
7.4
11.7
Union Carb.
1.00
14
3.95
6.00
5.85
6.20
4.45
800
2.4
5.3
1.00
| 12.5
1.48
1.38
1.25
1.73
1.25
2,100
10.0
5.9
Waltons
.50
6.25
.93
.85
82
1.05
.80
38,100
31,200
7.6
10.4
Webster, A. G
.50
7.5
1.25
1.21
1.21
1.38
1.15
6.2
11.3
Woolworths
.50
6
1.17
1.23
1.20
1.33
1.13
51,550 40,600
5.0
6.8
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
ilast
All ordinaries . .
409.49
409.61
137.55
138.29
50 leaders . . .
153.37
152.20
Banks 1
197.04
197.50
131.63
133.79
Other finances . .
569.20
561.52
80.14
80.41
Pastrol ....
259.26
261.06
132.60 i
132.93
Transport ....
515.96
512.57
102.33
102.66
Retail, merchants
333.62
330.62
100.20 1
99.00
Services ....
54.12
54.96
Foods 1
186.78
190.16 '
110.44
111.51
Textiles . .
200.32
199.23
83.93
83.60
Chemicals . .. .
372.73
368.90
88.40
87.68
Electricals ....
465.35
467.21
70.36
69.76
Paper
110.30
109.88
Building .
717.10
713.87
101.76
101.52
Automotive . . .
830.71
830.52
86.04|
85.57
Fuel pi-wer . .
186.85
-185.85
Steel, engineering
956.57
946.96
227.37
223.93
Non-ferrous . .
1674.43
1712.04
338.66
349.98
OIL
SUGAR
1 Week
| Friday
Week
Friday
I ago
last
ago
last
Brisbane ....
181.90
178.95
97.52
97.69
Melbourne .
149.46
145.09
1
THE WEEK'S
TURNOVERS
SYDNEY
i
MELBOURNE
'|'l N D USTRI AL|
MINING
11 N D USTRI AL|
MINING
Sales
Value |
Sales
Value
1 Sales
Value |
Sales J Value
Vol.
$
Vol.
5
] Vol.
5 1
Vol. | S
1000
1000 1
1000
1000
| 1000
1000 (
1000 | 1000
4243
8412 |
2940
3852
1 3548
8392 'I
2333 I 4261
Week to Friday
5196
8928 |
2977
3331
| 4184
9170 i|
2074 1 4786
OVERSEAS INDEXES
London
New
York | Tokyo
"Financial Times”
Dow
Jones ID. Jones
1 Inds.
Secs.
Gold
| Inds.
1 Rails | Avge.
Jan. 3. 1967
313.4
78.31,
51.9
786.41
205.1611444.35
1967 high
375.5
81.85
55.5
934.35
272.99(1506.27
1967 low
310.3
78.27
47.3
791.14
205.3111410.31
356 6
78 71
51 7
906 46
256.19(1342.17
372.7
78.83
50.8
933.48'
261.4211333.63
Latest
373.5
78 49
50.9
934 35
262 37(1350 27
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
Most industrial sections were seemingly less certain, but both
miners and oils have been able to make up some leeway. There
was, of course, full warrant for the focus upon Mount Morgan,
with very active turnover; on scent of a takeover struggle the
shares on Friday actually moved up to $5.02, yet closed at
$4.98 for a net gain of 58 cents. Peko-Wallsend started the week
at $4.98 and shed 23 cents to finish at $4.75. Western Mining
put on another 50 cents and Hamersley 31 cents. On issue
ruminations, BHP drifted back 10 cents to $13.35 and ACI
9 cents to $3.49.
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend . . 6.33
MELBOURNE
dividend 4.77
earnings 7.65
LONDON l F.T.)
dividend 4.45
earnings 6.21
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3.71
earnings 7.59
C'WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short . . 4.54 4 51
Medium .. . . 4.92 492
Long .. 5.25 5.25-


Ibur, three,
two,one...
Australian Liquid Air is rocketing
forward with super service in the
supply of oxygen, acetylene and other
gases; with a range of modern
equipment (some you’ve probably
never seen) and an ability to solve
unusual and difficult problems. To lift-
off ALA in your direction, just phone.
MELBOURNE 311 0281
ADELAIDE 55 2627
SYDNEY 632 5655
NEWCASTLE 54 1241
PORT KEMBLA Wollongong 4 0662
PERTH 30 2311
AND AUTHORISED DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
Australian Liquid Air is the new light
in the world of welding, cutting,
heating, brazing and for the supply of
oxygen, acetylene and other gases and
equipment for Australian Industrial
and Medical needs.
LIQUID AIR
IHEEE
jepnbj
A L A2.10Q A


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
MR R. S. TURNER
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Chairman’s Address at the
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders,
held on Tuesday, sth September* 1967.
The satisfactory profit earned in the past
year by the F.C.A. Group has already been
notified to shareholders in the Statement of
Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1967, and
Balance Sheet as at that date. The consoli-
dated net profit was again a record figure—
sl,433,lB6, after providing $1,169,076 for
income tax, $61,018 for depreciation, and
$370,000 for contingencies and doubtful
debts. The net profit is an increase of
$206,653 —16.8% on that of the year ended
30th June, 1966.
After the deduction of all unearned income
net outstandings of the Group totalled
$77,182,598 at 30th June, 1967, which
exceeded the previous year’s figure by
$2,581,795. Unearned income deducted in
arriving at net outstandings at the end of
the latest year amounted to $31,706,716 —
33.95% of that portion of the gross out-
standings to which it relates.
Loans on the security of real estate again
represented 86% of the net outstandings,
while leasing transactions accounted for
more than 10%. Hire Purchase is only a
minor part of the Group’s business.
This year in the consolidated accounts,
Provision for Contingencies and Doubtful
Debts was raised to $1,000,000 by the addi-
tion of the sum of $370,000 from current
earnings—to which I have referred earlier.
This $1,000,000 is deducted from outstand-
ings under the heading of Current Assets in
the consolidated Balance Sheet. All bad debts
experienced by our Companies were written
off in arriving at the year’s profits.
Paid up capital of Finance Corporation of
Australia Limited increased during the year
by $504,725 to $8,027,500 at 30th June, 1967.
The consolidated net profit earned repre-
sented 18.3% on the average paid up capital
throughout the year.
Capital is supported by reserves and
retained profits of $3,755,668 (an increase of
$664,658 during the year) which are all used
in the Companies’ businesses. Group Share-
holders’ Funds now stand at $11,783,168.
The dividend of 10% per annum has been
maintained in each year since the incorpora-
tion of the parent Company. This year, the
payment —inclusive of the interim dividend
paid—will amount to $783,892.
Shareholders now number 1£67. Our
largest shareholder—The Bank of Adelaide,
which has maintained its holding of 40 % of
the issued ordinary capital—continues to be
of great assistance to the Company.
The continued support of individual and
institutional investors and sharebrokers
throughout Australia again ensured the
success of the Company’s debenture issues.
Our debenture holders numbered 17,825 at
30th June, 1967, an increase of almost 2,000
during the year. Total debentures issued and
outstanding at 30th June, 1967, amounted
to $63,736,500. Deposits with the Company
at that date were $11,015,181.
The Company maintains a high degree of
liquidity, and at 30th June, 1967, had
Commonwealth Government stock, deben-
tures and shares in listed companies, deposits
and bank balances exceeding $9.2 million.
During the past year, while competition
was keen, a good volume of suitable business
was available to the Company, although in
South Australia there was a small decrease in
outstandings.
In Western Australia, our investment in
Scottish Loan Investment and Building
Society was sold satisfactorily, whilst a good
profit was earned on the sale of vacant land
acquired a few years ago for possible sub-
division.
Three pastoral properties were acquired
through subsidiaries in high rainfall areas in
the New England district of New South
Wales. These will have a high carrying
capacity for sheep and cattle when the
current program of pasture improvement is
completed.
As announced at the last Annual General
Meeting, a change in the top management
of our Group occurred in the year now
under review. Mr. K. W. Adcock was
appointed General Manager on the retire-
ment at 31st December, 1966, of Mr. A. C.
Noble who had held the position since the
incorporation of the Company. We ack-
nowledge the achievements of Mr. Noble
in his twelve years of office and wish him
well in his retirement. Mr. Adcock has
continued the former policies of the Com-
pany, and to him, and to the excellent team
of executives and staff throughout the
Branches and in Head Office, the Board
expresses its thanks on behalf of the Share-
holders, for their efforts in achieving this
year’s outstanding result in the Group’s
record of profitability since 1955.
There were changes in the Directorate
during the year under review. Mr. R. S.
Thomson retired on 30th June, 1967. He
was appointed to the Board in 1958, after
being closely associated with the Company
since its earliest days, when he served as an
Alternate Director. The thanks of the Share-
holders and the Board are due to Mr.
Thomson for his contribution to the success
of the Group.
Mr. F. R. Fisher and Mr. P. B. Wells were
appointed Directors during the year, and
their considerable experience in the pro-
fessions of law and accountancy have
already proved of benefit to the Company.
In accordance with the Articles of
Association of Finance Corporation of
Australia Limited, Sir Barton Pope and
Messrs. F. R. Fisher and P. B. Wells retire as
Directors. They are eligible for re-election
and offer themselves accordingly.
A further issue of 1,000,000 ordinary
shares of $1 each at par was announced last
month. It will be offered to Shareholders in
the proportion of one new share for every
eight shares held on 11th October, 1967.
50 cents per share will be payable on appli-
cation by Ist December, 1967, and the
balance of 50 cents per share will be payable
by Ist June, 1968.
The 1967 Report of the Reserve Bank of
Australia recently indicated that the Trading
Banks are now able to make short-term
mortgage and bridging loans at reasonable
rates of interest, not subject to the maximum
overdraft interest rate. This new policy will
increase competition in fields in which this
Company, and many other Finance Com-
panies, have been actively engaged for
several years. However, I do not expect the
F.C.A. Group to experience undue difficulty
in profitably employing all its available
funds.
The first two months of the current year
have brought no substantial changes in the
business of the Group, and we expect to
report another satisfactory result at the next
Annual General Meeting.
R. S. TURNER,
sth September, 1967 Chairman of Directors


THE LAND
British Wool Federation
speaks on auctions
THERE ARE MANY signs that the
great wool debate is about to gather
fresh momentum. Fine wool prices are
perhaps becoming a little more en-
couraging, yet nothing in the general
situation gives any indication that
wool’s problems are in any way lessen-
ing. Synthetics remain actively and
threateningly competitive, the Aus-
tralian crossbred position calls for close
examination, and New Zealand’s ex-
perience with a Government support
plan needs evaluation. To cap it all,
world wool production for 1967-68 will
probably attain a record 6000 m. pounds
—a more than 2 percent increase on
1966-67.
Disposal methods always seem to be
in the air. And despite the fact that
Britain has slipped from its ranking as
best customer, British purchasers are
sufficiently important to demand a
hearing for any views that may be ex-
pressed there on marketing. In a
careful and guarded statement the
British Wool Federation has returned
to this matter of marketing, following
its earlier consideration in December,
1963.
The Federation represents practically
all companies importing, merchanting,
and processing, to first stage, wool in
the U.K.
After detailing alternative schemes,
the latest statement comes down cau-
tiously on the side of open auctions.
That system “can be operated irre-
spective of the methods by which wool
is assembled for sale. It has stood the
test of time and its continuance has
been recommended by successive com-
mittees of enquiry.” The Federation be-
lieves that free-enterprise methods of
assembly join with smooth and speedy
disposal to create an efficient system.
“The auction system remains, in our
view, the least imperfect method of
disposal of the Australian wool clip
and not simply because of tradition,”
the Federation remarks.
The existence of, and fear of, price
fluctuations are not in themselves valid
criticisms of auction. “Since prices for
any commodity are determined by the
pressures of supply and demand, prices
act only as a barometer reflecting the
interplay of these pressures. No system
of selling could control or eliminate
variations in demand and, if prices
were not allowed to fluctuate, supply
and production would need to fluctuate
to meet demand changes.”
It is not very hard for the Federa-
tion to point out that it is a dangerous
hope to think that consumers will pay
relatively more than any supply-de-
mand interplay dictates. And there
should be little necessity at this stage
to draw attention to the hectic com-
petition from man-made fibres and
their widening range of choice.
The Federation, of course, cannot
avoid discussing the mechanism of price
reserve within an open auction system.
It concludes, however, that such a
device would interfere with the free
flow of wool into the industry’s pro-
cessing sections. That could place wool-
growers “at a distinct disadvantage vis
a vis the growing number of the com-
petitors in the market for textile
fibres.”
Oddly enough, in the light of some-
recent criticisms, the BWF repeats its
support of an extension of the selling
season. It had previously argued for
the more even spread, throughout the
season, of offerings of different types
and still does not agree with the
creation of additional selling centres.
Now the view is expressed that econ-
omies can be achieved in the processes
of assembling wool for sale and it is
these kinds of economies that could be
passed to the grower as reduced selling
costs.
It should hardly be necessary to
urge special consideration for wool-
growers to obtain, or be given, more
information on market requirements.
A sober warning all round, which
concludes with an extreme caution on
the extension of reserve methods of
protection. The Federation tends to
admit that a measure of insulation
against fluctuations could be afforded
wool producers, but still asks for
further explanation of alternative
methods.
Agrisearch
Chemicals for mowing the lawn
SPRING BRINGS OUT the lawn-
mowers. The huffing, puffing, fuming,
and cussing season has already begun.
For the next six months hundreds of
thousands of people in town and coun-
try will often be found sweating behind
handmowers or struggling to get
cantankerous motors started. Quite a
few will be maimed before the year is
out by these mechanical monsters —all
for the sake of maintaining artificially
attractive swards around their homes.
Is there a better way?
The post-war revolution in agricul-
tural chemicals gave us maleic hydra-
zide (MH), but in the succeeding welter
of other new herbicides it never found
a major niche and is rarely named
now. Its special virtue as a growth
inhibitor does not seem to have been
fully exploited. To a limited extent this
feature of MH has been used to prevent
stored potatoes and onions from sprout-
ing, and at one time it was recom-
mended as the best chemical weapon
to wield against wild oats and quack
grass. Why it has not come to be widely
used for slowing down the rate of
growth of lawns is something of a
mystery.
Perhaps the prissy, tonsorial stan-
dards of the typical suburban home-
owner are largely responsible. When
MH is used as a chemical mower, that
symbol of home pride, the perfectly
manicured lawn, cannot be flaunted.
Though short, the sward still looks rela-
tively unkempt. However, by judicious
resort to the mechanical mower, a
pretty neat effect could be achieved.
Depending on conditions, two or three
clippings a year should suffice instead
of the twenty or more needed to keep
a lawn tidy that has not been treated
with MH.
Farmsteads with their fairly extensive
surrounds of rough lawn usually do not
aspire to city standards, but the grass
must be kept in reasonable control if
only to avoid losing the clothespegs or
the barbecue cutlery. Moreover, spring
and summer are rather busy times for
farm families. MH is, therefore, cer-
tainly worth considering.
Only one application of MH, prefer-
ably in early spring, is needed each
year. The rate of application is rather
critical, and, in the absence of local
test results, an overseas recommenda-
tion will have to be quoted: 41b. per
acre (l£oz. per 1000 square feet) will
apparently give good growth retarda-
tion yet leave a wide enough margin
for safety. Too much or uneven spray-
ing would, of course, ruin the lawn.


Closes Saturday!
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
cn
ooicn
per annum for
10 or 15 Years
53°/ per annum for 7 Years
8/o
Unconditionally guaranteed by the
N.S. W. Government
HIGHEST INTEREST. Interest rates are the highest available for a
Government-Guaranteed security.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY. The Government-Guarantee assures you of
interest payments every 6 months and full repayment of principal at
maturity.
CASH APPLICATIONS are accepted in full or by instalments; pay 10%
deposit on application, and the balance by 30th December, 1967.
THREE CONVERSIONS. Holders in three 5i% Loans—Nos. 181 and
320 (maturing Ist October, 1967) —and 333 (maturing Ist November,
1967) are invited to convert to the new Loan.
TRUSTEE INVESTMENTS. An Authorised Investment for Trustees in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
TAX CONCESSIONS. The Loan is also an approved security for Trus-
tees of Pension and Superannuation Funds wishing to qualify for Taxation
Concessions.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited; Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limit-
ed; The National Bank of Australasia Limited; Rural Bank of New South
Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the Board’s offices.
For Prospectus and further details , 'phone 2-0048 in Sydney
or 2-5391 in Wollongong.
SYDNEY WATER
Underwritten by ORD , MIN NETT. T. J. THOMPSON A. PARTNERS.
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Ltd.
29.970
The chemical is safe to handle, being
relatively non-toxic. When spread on a
lawn it is quite harmless to man and
beast. It is also non-corrosive and so
does not damage spray equipment.
While on the subject of plant sup-
pression, it is interesting to note that
Queensland is presently battling against
cactus that threatens to become an even
greater problem than prickly pear was
nearly half a century ago. This one
does not look as though it can be
stopped by biological means as the
pear was by the Cactoblastis beetle
introduced for the purpose from Argen-
tina. It is the Harrisia cactus (Erio-
cereus martinii), commonly called the
Moonlight Cactus because it opens its
funnel-shaped, pink-tinged flowers at
night. And very attractive they are,
too, but the long rambling stems or
branches are brutal, being heavily armed
with multi-directional spines. The
apple-size fruit also looks good when i'
has matured to a crimson red. Bui
inside are up to 1000 small black seeds
beloved by birds and eaten also by wild
pigs. Hence the plant may be quickly
and widely spread by undamaged seeds
in the droppings of these animals.
Wherever the trailing branches touch
the ground, roots are sent out, and
broken-off portions are also able to take
root. As a result, impenetrable jungles
form fast. The roots themselves are
numerous and tuberous and will send
up new shoots after the top has been
killed or cut off. Well-established
colonies with extensive root systems
cannot be knocked out by simply spray-
ing the tops with chemicals. There is
every reason, therefore, why the Queens-
land Department of Lands should
regard this as a “frightening” weed.
Its original and main strongholds are
in the Collinsville and Rockhampton
districts, where it is now spread over
about 150,000 acres, but considerable
infestations also exist in more than a
dozen other districts. The Brigalow
country is chiefly at risk, and unless the
weed is controlled it will undo the
recent impressive attempts to bring
these lands into production. The
Minister for Lands has warned that
any slackening of effort to control the
cactus by the lessees in this area will
result in forfeiture of their holdings.
Control is possible, but to be successful
the recommended measures must be
followed diligently and involve arduous
and even dangerous work. One of the
most effective chemicals for spraying
the small plants and injecting into the
roots of large specimens is arsenic pen-
toxide, which is highly toxic to man and
stock. Recent research shows that
“Weedazol 616,” marketed by Agserv
Industries Pty. Ltd., is at least as good
as the arsenic but is not dangerous.
Nevertheless, our pioneering friends in
the Brigalow have an unenviable task
ahead of them.


PAPER FOR PROGRESS No. 9 IN A SERIES
I
ISilllfc
■
m
f
•a
&
I
WE PLANT A TREE FOR YOU EVERY YEAR
Every year foresters of A.P.M. plant about 7
million trees one for every adult Australian
to help meet this country’s future paper
requirements. The 7 million trees planted by
the company in 1966 will be harvested in about
1985 to provide wood and wood products.
Since 1950 A.P.M.’s forestry company, A.P.M.
Forests Pty. Ltd., has planted about 48 million
trees on 69,000 acres of tree farms in Victoria,
Queensland and N.S.W. We are continuing to
plant ‘paper’ trees at a rate many times greater
than Australia’s growth in population.
&
AgM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTa
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate.
South Melbourne Sales Offices in all State Capitals.
1924-9x7-8.9


Living at “Princess Royal”
Mrs. Andrew Tennant, of South Australia, with Sheelah Wood in the sitting-room
of Mrs. Tennant’s house, “Princess Royal.” This room has pale yellow papered
walls, deep red carpets, and red leather-covered black-lacquered chairs
The drawing-room windows have exquisite
pelmets of carved wood and gesso. The
table is English 18th-century marquetry
One of a series, Living is an Art,
by SHEELAH WOOD
Mrs. Andrew Tennant is a reserved
woman of gentle prettiness who was
born in New Zealand, the daughter of
Sir William and Lady Goodman. Her
father was responsible for the intro-
duction of electric trams to Adelaide.
Her husband is the chairman of the
South Australian Jockey Club. They
race horses in partnership and have
been successful with Cosmonaut.
The Tennants’ country house, “Prin-
cess Royal,” was named after the origi-
nal copper mine discovered on the
property in 1864. Their town house
is a low white villa in the suburb of
Walkerville.
Mrs. Tennant commutes between the
two houses and is fortunate in having
a superb Spanish cook. But they are
both large houses and Gwen Tennant
does a lot herself. She runs the two
houses with the aid of notebooks. She
believes in writing down instructions
to implement her verbal ones. Mrs.
Tennant does all the household shop-
ping personally and never orders by
telephone. She enjoys marketing and
likes to see and “feel” what she is buy-
ing.
Mrs. Tennant admits to being thor-
oughly domesticated and liking it. At
“Princess Royal” she successfully runs
the poultry farm and breeds white
turkeys for sale on the Adelaide mar-
ket.
favorite entertainment is a din-
ner party for ten or small tables for
20. She likes to serve a martini and
a mixed tray of spirits for people to
make their own choice. She usually
offers her guests one special hors-
d’oeuvre with nuts and olives.
In the country, she gives house par-
ties and never fusses. She believes in
leaving the guests to their own devices
to enjoy the relaxation • of the change
from the city.
Her main hobby is her garden. When
they first went to “Princess Royal,” it
was surrounded by enormous Moreton
Bay fig trees and nothing else. She has
designed and planted the garden as it
is now. Today, it is an oasis in the
rather arid countryside. It comes as a
shock after the stark drive from Ade-
laide to find yourself driving into this
plantation of shrubberies, trees, her-
baceous borders, and rose gardens.
Gwen Tennant is continually chang-
ing and simplifying the garden and is
at present planning a new vista from the
house, in the Italian style, to look to-
ward a pool at the end of the garden.
She says the style and quality of a
garden of the size of hers are governed
by the intelligence and interest of the
gardener. Hers is Spanish.
She is interested in the traditional in
furnishing and her houses are filled with
antiques collected all over the world.
With the comfortable wall-to-wall
carpets of today, she loves beautiful
fabrics and prefers them when they
have “mellowed” into shabbiness. The
house at “Princess Royal” has also
some lovely antique rugs in muted
colors. Both Mrs. Tennant and her
husband are avid collectors and attend
any auction sale of interest. Many of
the objects in their homes have been
the result of steady standing at both
town and country sales in Australia and
abroad.
In their town house the Tennants
have an interesting collection of mod-
ern Australian pictures which blend
well with traditional English flower and
landscape paintings.
Mr. and Mrs. Tennant love to travel
and she names Italy and France as her


A simple white marble mantelpiece in the drawing-room holds a collection of
Moore china and is surmounted by a gilt mirror. Pictures by Victor Grimmett
favorite places. In France they stay at
Epernay with a cousin of her husband,
who is hostess of the chateau belonging
to the champagne firm of Moet-
Chandon. The Hon. Moira Campbell
is in charge of all the food and wine
and has the responsibility of entertain-
ing overseas buyers and visitors.
WINES
LUNCHEON Chateau Leonay
Riesling.
DINNER With fish Lindeman’s
Hunter River Riesling. With meat
Reynella Cabernet 1961, or, if unavail-
able, Reynella Vintage Reserve Claret
1963.
MENUS
Luncheon
Shrimps in Cucumber cases
Galantine of ham & tongue with
assorted salads
Peaches with Raspberry sauce
Dinner
Theodora Prawns and Fish with Rice
Fillet de boeuf a l’amiral
Sauteed potato balls
Broad beans
Green salad
Meringue Pudding with Sugared Grapes
Fraise Chantilly Gateau
Right, Pride of place in the sitting-
room is given to a photograph of Star
Monarch, owned by Mr. and Mrs.
Andrew Tennant and winner of the
Adelaide St. Leger in 1951
This small French painted desk with
silver-gilt ornaments is in the drawing-
room


LUNCHEON
SHRIMPS IN CUCUMBER CASES
Ingredients: 2 small tins of shrimps,
4 apple cucumbers, 1 pint bechamel
sauce.
Method: Scoop seeds from apple
cucumbers after halving. Make becha-
mel sauce, adding a little white wine.
Add cucumber seeds and shrimps, salt
and pepper. Scoop some of the flesh
from the cucumber cups and peel.
Place cups in flat oven-proof dish, fill
with shrimp mixture, sprinkle with
parmesan cheese. Pour remainder of
shrimp mixture round the dish. Bake
in oven 40-45 minutes (350 deg.).
GALANTINE OF HAM & TONGUE
Ingredients: minced pork, |lb.
cooked ham sliced into long strips,
£lb. cooked tongue sliced into long
strips, 10 rashers of bacon, 2 table-
spoons of slivered almonds or pis-
tachio nuts, 2 parboiled onions, 2
bayleaves, mixed spices, salt, pepper,
1 small glass of sherry.
Method: Mince the pork meat with
the parboiled onions. Season with pep-
per, salt, a pinch of mixed spices, sherry,
and nuts. Line a small meat press
measuring approximately 8-|in. by 3|in.
by This is called a number five
in the trade. They are obtainable from
hotel suppliers. If you do not have
one, use a casserole with a weight on
top for cooking. The pressing is im-
portant. Line the press with the bacon
strips and a bayleaf. Cover with a
layer of the pork forcemeat, then with
a layer of the meat strips. Continue in
this way till press is filled. Cover with
the rest of the bacon strips and the
second bayleaf. Put on lid and press
firmly. Place in oven in baking dish
of hot water and bake with oven at
350-370 deg. for 1-| hours. When cool,
place in refrigerator. When serving,
turn out and slice the galantine to
show the different layers in profile.
ITALIAN SALAD
Ingredients: lib. spinach leaves (not
silver beet), 1 small lettuce, 2 hard-
boiled eggs, 2 tablespoons blue cheese,
spring onions, parsley, 2 tablespoons
capers, 1 clove garlic, 1 tablespoon
vinegar, 3 tablespoons oil, salt, pep-
per.
Method: Shred the spinach and let-
tuce leaves, mixing them together well.
Cream the cheese with the vinegar,
season to taste with salt, pepper, and
oil. Mix well together with the chopped
or crushed clove of garlic. Toss the
spinach and lettuce thoroughly, with
the capers, in this dressing and garnish
with sieved boiled eggs and chopped
onions and parsley.
TOMATO AND GREEN PEPPER
SALAD
Ingredients: Tomatoes, green peppers,
french dressing, chives.
Method: Slice the green peppers into
rings and the tomatoes into circles.
Place them alternately on a long serv-
ing dish. Sprinkle generously with
chives and lightly with a well-flavored
french dressing.
RICE SALAD
Ingredients: 3 cups cold cooked rice, 1
peeled and diced cucumber, 3 table-
spoons mixed dried herbs, 1 cup cold
cooked peas.
Method: Mix all together with french
dressing.
PEACHES WITH RASPBERRY
SAUCE
Ingredients: 12 small white firm-fleshed
peaches, cups water, f cup sugar,
1 small piece vanilla bean, 1 box
raspberries, 4 teaspoons kirsch
liqueur.
Method: Place peaches in a heavy
frying pan and parboil for 2 minutes.
Carefully remove skin. Make a hot
syrup of the water, sugar, and vanilla
bean in frypan. Remove bean and care-
fully poach the peaches in the syrup,
turning carefully with a spoon, until
tender. Remove to serving dish. Vita-
mise the raspberries with two table-
spoons of water and add the kirsch.
Pour sauce over peaches. Place in- re-
frigerator and before serving sprinkle
with slivered blanched almonds.
Dining-room is furnished with Colonial
and English pieces. The beautiful hand-
carved wood pelmets are part of the
house’s original furnishing
DINNER
(6-8 people)
THEODORA PRAWNS AND FISH
WITH RICE
Ingredients: lib. skinned and filleted
flathead or whiting, 5 tablespoons
cooked rice, medium-sized
cooked prawns, 2 tablespoons chop-
ped chives, 1 tablespoon chopped
parsley, 1 tin green asparagus spears,
salt, pepper, mayonnaise.
Method: Steam fish fillets in water
and a little white wine till cooked.
Flake fish and carefully remove bones.
Shell prawns. Combine rice, fish, and
prawns (cut in pieces) with half the
quantity of mayonnaise, salt, and pep-
per. Save five prawns for decorating
dish. Put mixture into circular mould
and press gently into firmness. Turn out
on to serving dish. Smoothly cover with
a little mayonnaise and decorate with
prawns cut lengthwise, sliced stuffed
olives, and garnish with asparagus.
Refrigerate for one hour. Serve remain-
der of mayonnaise separately.
MAYONNAISE
Ingredients: 8 egg-yolks, 2 tumblerfuls
olive oil, lemon juice, salt, pepper.
Method: Place 4 egg-yolks in vita-
miser and, with machine at full speed,
add very slowly 1 tumblerful of oil.
Finally, add lemon juice and season-
ing to taste. Repeat this operation for
second lot of mayonnaise.
FILLET DE BOEUF A L’AMIRAL
Ingredients: 1 fillet of beef it is
possible to do this successfully with
a Scotch fillet, which is much cheaper
than the eye of fillet, 6 onions, 6
chopped anchovies, 2 chopped truffles,
2 tablespoons chopped bacon, 1 tea-
spoon fresh thyme, 1 teaspoon fresh
marjoram, 1 teaspoon fresh parsley,
2 egg-yolks.
Method: Cut the fillet into slices, but
do not cut completely through. Make a
stuffing of the above and press it be-
tween each slice. Tie the fillet together
and place in pan with butter and one
dessertspoon oil to stop the butter
burning. Bake slowly at 300 deg. until
done.
SALAD
Toss lettuce leaves, celery seed, and
chives together with french dressing.
POTATO BALLS SAUTEED IN
BUTTER
With a melon bailer, make about
four cups of potato balls. Leave in cold
water for one hour. Blanch in boiling
water. Toss in a mixture of two parts oil
to one part butter until golden brown.
BROAD BEANS
Shake the beans in a pan of peanut
oil with a crushed clove of garlic until
done.
MERINGUE PUDDING WITH
GRAPES
Ingredients: 1 tablespoon curacao, 1|
pints cream whipped till firm,
meringues 16 small and 12 large,
9 to 12 ratafia biscuits or macaroons,
2 egg-whites stiffly beaten, 6 almonds,
blanched, shredded, and browned in
the oven.
Method: Make 16 small meringues
and 12 large, using basic method. Dry
off in slightly warmer oven to achieve
pale coffee color. Crush large meringues.
Crush ratafia biscuits or macaroons,
mix together, add whipped cream,
stiffly beaten egg-whites, and curacao.
Mound on to flat dish. Press whole
meringues to sides and refrigerate. Add
browned almonds for decorating.
SUGARED GRAPES
Divide large grapes (white and
black) into bunches of 3. Lightly beat
one egg-white dip grapes into egg-
white, then into sugar. Put on rack to
dry overnight. Serve round meringue
and cream shape. Make the day before.
FRAISE CHANTILLY GATEAU
One sponge cake 9in. diameter.
Remove centre, leaving lin. from edge.
Spinkle liberally with curacao. Fill
with whipped cream and strawberries.
Sprinkle with sugar decorate tops
of strawberries with angelica stalks.


BOOKS
Novels that leave much for the
reader to fathom
By LEONIE KRAMER
The Pyramid. William Golding. Faber
and Faber.
IN RECENT YEARS William Gold-
ing’s literary progress has taken him
from “The Spire” through “The Hot
Gates” to “The Pyramid.” Such a
journey cannot fail to give rise to all
kinds of speculations, undertaken as
it is by a writer the implications of
whose works are more powerful than
their statements. When Mr. Golding’s
followers, anxiously scampering after
him in the hope of picking up dropped
clues, come face to face with “The
Pyramid,” they will find that they have
been chasing a mirage. Here is no
world of sand, riddles, forgotten tombs,
and ancient desert gods. It is a small
world, and a familiar one. Its capital
is Stilbourne, a dull village in Southern
England, the home of Golding’s young
hero Oliver, whose adolescent adven-
tures form the action, though hardly
the substance, of the novel.
Other members of the cast guarantee
Stilbourne’s solidity and its complacent
sense of class. There are the doctor’s
family, the eccentric music-teacher Miss
Dawlish, the garage proprietor Henry,
Evie Babbacombe (Oliver’s easily won
but temporary mistress), and Oliver’s
own well-meaning parents. Stilbourne,
as its name implies, is scarcely a lively
village. What life it has is superficial,
even somehow irrelevant to living.
Why, then, “The Pyramid”? The
answer presumably is to be sought in
the epigraph to the novel. It is taken
from the “Instructions of Ptah-Hotep”
and reads, “If thou be among people
make for thyself love, the beginning and
end of the heart.” The connection
between the life of Stilbourne and the
sayings of an ancient Egyptian vizier
surely an ironic one. The Egyptians
surrounded themselves in death with
the amenities for a happy after-life.
The inscriptions in their tombs pro-
vided them with instructions and magic
spells designed to guarantee a safe and
comfortable journey to the next world.
In Stilbourne life is a kind of death,
and love is born only to be travestied,
perverted, or frustrated. This is a comic
novel with a bitter after-taste.
“The Pyramid” is a puzzling novel
in several ways, not least in its design.
Superficially, it appears simple enough;
divided into three sections, each of
which overlaps the others in time,
action, and character. In the first,
Oliver, aged 18 (and the narrator
throughout), is spending his last weeks
at home before going up to Oxford.
In actual space this section occupies
about half the novel, and its central
episode is Oliver’s account of the very
practical sex-education he receives from
Evie Babbacombe. Evie, inferior in
social status, is vastly superior in experi-
ence, and demonstrates her superiority
with callous cunning.
In the second section Oliver returns
home from Oxford at the end of his
first term, and is forced by his mother
to take part in a performance of “The
King of Hearts,” presented by the
Stilbourne Operatic Society. He is intro-
duced to its graceful, drunken, homo-
sexual producer, and cured of what has
for long been a hopeless passion for
Imogen, now married to a singer who
matches her in vanity and incompetence.
Farce with a touch of grotesquerie
summarises this movement of the story.
In the last section Oliver returns to
Stilbourne some years later. He is now
a married man with two young chil-
dren, successful, we gather, and pros-
perous. To return in maturity is, how-
ever, to return to childhood, for the
central episode takes Oliver’s life story
further back in time than does any
event in any .other part of the novel.
He travels in memory back to his sixth
year, when Miss Dawlish began to
teach him the violin. Her portrait is
drawn through his maturing observa-
tions of her behaviour.
Mr. Golding forges many links
William Golding... mirage
between the three stages of the novel.
The interweaving of the characters, the
shifts in emphasis, the changes in per-
spective, and the movements back and
forth in time are handled with unobtru-
sive skill. Indeed, one is conscious of
the many contrasts and ironies of the
novel long before one begins to see
how they have been achieved.
Yet the outline is curiously blurred
and indistinct, in spite of the sharpness
of individual episodes. If I am right ,in
supposing that the novel’s epigraph
offers an ironic comment upon the
action, one can see its application
clearly enough. Love is travestied in
Oliver’s affair with Evie; the homo-
sexual de Tracey makes hysterical
drunken comments upon love in the
form of very obvious double entendres;
Miss Dawlish suffers from deprivation,
and at last, in mad protest against her
neglect, walks through Stilbourne in her
hat, gloves, shoes, and nothing else.
Yet in the end the elements that Mr.
Golding has so carefully blended resist
his technical adroitness and refuse to
co-operate. There seems no compelling
reason for the sequence of the three
movements. There is something
arbitrary about the manner as well as
the matter of Oliver’s recollections,
something not altogether accounted for
by the epigraph, nor by the persistent
musical motif of the book.
Oliver himself, for all the accuracy
of his observations, appears at times
like a somnambulist, wandering through
his past as through a partly understood
dream. Especially in the last section, his
memories take on the quality of sym-
bolic nightmare-landscape, accessible to,
yet resisting, interpretation. And as
though to emphasise the mystery of his
past, Oliver recalls that the Ewans
(whose son was his rival for Evie Babba-
combe) always gave him a present for
Christmas. “They also vibrated in time
to the crystal pyramid.” Obscurity or
the wisdom of the ancients? Mystery or
muddle? Perhaps only time will tell.
New-world campus
By JOHN BAXTER
Giles Goat-Boy. John Barth. Seeker and
Warburg. $5.30.
JOHN BARTH’S “The Sot Weed
Factor” was a sprawling and bawdy
yarn about the colonisation of America,
enlivened by vast discursive descriptions
of rape and adventure, and a style as
confusing and racy as the narrative. It
gained the writer a following which has
waited impatiently some years for him
to supply more of the same. Now that
his new novel has arrived, longer, more


bawdy and discursive than the first, I
wonder how dedicated Barth readers
will react to its eccentricities. “Giles
Goat-Boy” is, like “The Sot Weed Fac-
tor,” huge, rambling, and erotic; it is
also, however, heavily symbolic, and,
despite its raw wit and straightforward
construction, to the average reader prob-
ably hopelessly opaque.
The book’s cover gives us a clue to
its ambiguity; the horned mask which
provides its basic design forms a dif-
ferent face when turned upside down.
Giles, the book’s hero —if that is the
word —is similarly two-faced. In the
opening chapters he is an apparently
human child living as a goat among a
herd kept by a mysterious anchorite
named Max Spielman on the outskirts
of the huge New Tammany University.
There is, we gather, nothing else in the
world but New Tammany, just as, to
Giles, nothing exists but the goat-yard,
where he plays in a mindless Eden.
Later, however, he is to emerge as a
sort of Messianic hero who fights and
fornicates his way to control of the
University and eventual godhood.
Spielman has been, one gathers, an
important figure in the history of New
Tammany, but was exiled after a feud
with his arch-enemy Eblis Eierkopf
(literally Hades Egghead). As Giles’
curiosity grows, Max explains to him
the politics of New Tammany; how it
is divided into various warring cam-
puses, how, after a number of student
riots, it has settled down into an uneasy
and armed peace the Quiet Riot
and how everything is controlled by
the computer WESCAC, a benign dic-
tator holding over everybody the ability
to EAT them scramble their men-
tal processes and turn them into homi-
cidal idiots.
Briefly, “Giles Goat-Boy” tells how
Giles leaves the goat-pen and, accom-
panied by Max, sets out to graduate
from New Tammany and take up his
rightful position as the Grand Tutor of
the University, one which he believes
he holds by virtue of his mysterious
birth, dumped out of the computer
building with an apparently meaningless
sign around his neck, PASS ALL FAIL
ALL. During his travels he meets a
crowd of characters, most of them
eccentric to some degree, and has a
series of adventures beside which the
events of “Pilgrim’s Progress” are as
nothing. The book, we are led to be-
lieve, is his testament a new
revised syllabus for the university
as recorded by WESCAC, his protector
(and perhaps a symbol for God the
Father, with Giles God the Son, and
Max the Holy Ghost?).
However tempted one is to see the
whole thing as an elaborate political
parable, it is impossible to ignore the
vast amount of apparently unrelated
religious symbolism which continually
intrudes. Accepting the dubious con-
clusion that the legendary Enos Enoch
and the Twelve Trustees, i.e., Christ,
founded the University, what are we
to make of Giles, who is agreed by
all to be the founder’s descendant? I
find it hard to believe that what Barth
is talking about is some sort of Second
Coming, if only because of Giles’ randy
animal nature, patently out of tune
with the lofty ideals of the deified
Enos Enoch.
Whether one understands the sym-
bolism or not, the energy of Barth’s
writing makes most of the 700 pages
fascinating. He has a medieval flair for
the bawdy and obscene, of which
he makes frequent use. If one cuts
away the gratuitous top-hamper of
introductions, publisher’s notes, fore-
words, and prologues, “Giles Goat-
Boy” is revealed to be a fairly con-
ventional fantasy, the bizarre back-
ground of which is far more elaborate
than the relatively simple plot would
seem to dictate. Science-fiction has
left behind much of the eccentric
detail which Mr. Barth, oblivious of the
fact that there is little in it genuinely
new, reveals here with such gusto.
Parting the curtain
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
The Taste of Power. Ladislov Mnacko.
Weidenfeld. $3.15.
A FEW WEEKS AGO Czech author
and roving journalist Mnacko was
deprived of his nationality and ex-
pelled from the Czech Communist
Party for accusing his country of anti-
Semitism. That may not have been the
whole reason. Remembering what has
happened to similarly critical writers
in neighboring Communist countries,
Ladislov Mnacko being interviewed in
Tel Aviv following his Party expulsion
his book would have called for reprisal
of some kind, on some ground or other.
As a study in “homo staliniensis,”
or the corruption by power of a simple
revolutionary into a paranoic tyrant,
“The Taste of Power” has genuine, in-
disputable documentary value. It is an
excellent piece of fearless documenta-
tion with the minimum of fictional
trimmings. This is most likely exactly
what Mnacko set out to achieve. The
trite, cliche-strewn phrases of “A Taste
of Power” do achieve, collectively, an
overall flavor of staleness by default
that suits the subject: corruption.
The story is related from the view-
point of an official newspaper photog-
rapher, Frank, once a personal friend
of the dead dictator whose corpse now
lies in state on the black-draped cata-
falque. As the organised theatricalities
of the last homages proceed as the
unbereaved blonde widow and the self-
congratulatory successor to the throne
pass in strict regimentation, followed by
the committees, the anonymous cast-off
first wife, the disinherited son, the
schools, the factories, and the collective
farm-workers Frank exposes his regu-
lation footage of film and lets his mind
flash back over episodes in the tyrant’s
life.
As other men might collect porno-
graphic pictures, Frank has assembled
a secret dark-room archive of red-hot,
candid-camera, telescopic-lens shots of
high officials in disarray. All his “ex-
posures” are completely predictable:
the tyrant as chummy youngster, idealis-
tic reformer, revolutionary, wartime
hero, leading statesman; then the first
signs of megalomania, the persecution
complex, the striptease scenes, the
drinking-under-the-table scenes, the
betrayal-of-old-comrade scenes, the
death. It all ends with Frank’s antici-
pated, anticlimactic conclusion, “Power
corrupts.”
A few weeks ago I would have said
the real importance of this book lay
in its healthy freedom of expression,
the typically Czech reassessment of
democratic values, the atmosphere of
levelling out and mopping up after the
deluge (even though only excerpts had
so far been allowed to appear in
Czechoslovakia itself). The relevant fact
was that someone could write it at all.
However, events have changed all
this, pointing to another relevant fact.
There is a danger that in our approval
of Iron Curtain countries’ growing
artistic emancipation, we are getting
into the habit of putting the apprecia-
tive cart before the hardworking horse.
We are inclined to approve Yevtu-
shenko more for his nose-thumbing,
beatnik-posturing than for his great
poetry; composer Lutoslavsky for his
“decadent,” me-too avant-garde music
simply because he is a resident Pole;
and more recently Mnacko, for some
imaginary and unnecessary literary dis-
tinction, and not simply because he had
courageously parted the curtain and
admitted that Communists do have
frailties just like any other men.
A few weeks ago it seemed like the
opening of the silliest season yet in


THEATRICAL
Manager/Producer
required for Canberra Reper-
tory to commence January,
1968. Applications close 6th
October. Full details from:
The President,
Canberra Repertory Society,
18 Riverside.
BARTON, A.C.T. 2600.
BOOKH UNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
East-West relations when Oxford dons
wrote forewords claiming stylish prose
and outstanding literary merit for the
book, even placing it by innuendo
above contemporary writing in non-
Cammunist countries (“ . . . the
literary scene in Eastern Europe now
appears less bleak than in the West,
where writers are not easily able to
find common ground with their readers
. . .” unless they “whip themselves into
a sense of life by heroin or by sexual
perversion”).
Now my point seems well taken.
Great strength
By VIVIAN SMITH
The Collected Earlier Poems. William
Carlos Williams. Macgibbon and Kee.
$6.15.
In The American Grain. William
Carlos Williams. Macgibbon and Kee.
$4.60.
These books complete the English
publication of Williams’ total output
and present him at his most attractive
and confidently challenging.
“The Earlier Poems” runs from 1906
to 1939 and is a smaller book than it
looks. It contains twenty slim volumes,
of which the most important is “Spring
and All,” the 1923 work that established
Williams as an important American
poet. “One by one the objects are
defined / it quickens: clarity, outline
of leaf,” as he says in the title piece;
and poem after poem of a Klee-like
frailty and economy emphasises the
supreme importance of things. “So
much depends / upon / a red wheel /
barrow / glazed with rain / water /
beside the white / chickens —” a poem
which utilises the white space on the
page in an almost Mallarmean way.
Williams, I suppose, did all with
Imagism that could be done and much
of his work is now dated in an excep-
tionally interesting way. But he stands
at the beginning of some of the most
intriguing developments in modern
American poetry. Yvor Winters, always
a just critic, said: “Williams bears a
certain resemblance to the best lyric
poets of the thirteenth century; there
is in both an extreme sophistication of
style, a naive limitation of theme, and
a fresh enthusiasm for the theme.” He
must have been thinking above all of
Williams’ early work.
“In The American Grain” was first
published in 1925, at the time Ameri-
can writers were still either expatriates
or starting to rediscover their own past.
As usual, a foreigner had to help,
though D. H. Lawrence’s “Studies in
Classic American Literature” was pub-
lished at the same time that Sherwood
Anderson published his notebooks; 1924
saw the great Melville revival. The
Americans started to find they had a
William Carlos Williams
literary heritage that they could use,
and this revival is certainly part of the
great strength present-day American
literature draws on. Williams in this
book “tried to make it new” by looking
at what it might mean to be American.
An extraordinary book.
Nicer than humans
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
I, Robot. Isaac Asimov. Dobson. $2.65.
The Rest of the Robots. Isaac Asimov.
Dobson. $4.25.
ASIMOV’S NOBLE ROBOTS have,
over the past 27 years, gone far beyond
the usual frontiers of Science Fiction—
they seriously tackle the ethical-philo-
sophical problems of man-made man
and at the same time, in an inverted
Lilliputian manner, subtly satirise their
makers. These two volumes, which
comprise the complete robotic collec-
tion to date, seem destined to take their
place together with Jules Verne and
H. G. Wells among the classics of S.F.
Writers have always had an obsession
for artificially or mechanically created
life as typified by Mary Shelley’s
Frankenstein monster or Karel Capek’s
“R.U.R.” mannikins. The latter play
caused such a stir in the early ’twenties
that the word “robot,” which actually
only means “worker” in Czech, passed
into the English language. But until
Asimov the basic formula remained
the same: an unwritten moral code
seemed to demand that the monster
should turn upon his creator and des-
troy him. It was a kind of ritual mur-
der, an inevitable retribution for such
sacrilegious tampering with God and
nature.
However, as a true child of the
Space Age, Asimov resented this purely
Faustian interpretation of science. He
set out consciously to reverse the syn-
drome: instead of unfeeling mechanical
objects which wreaked terror and des-
truction, his robots became sublimated
versions of ourselves recognisably
made in man’s own image (only more
intelligent), endearingly human (only
nicer); they co-inhabit a future universe
which (even when it is meant to be a
century hence) is still clearly an ex-
tension of our own.
Built into their positronic, precision-
engineered brains all these robots have
their Three Laws, which begin, “A
robot may not injure a human being
...” and unlike humans they all keep
their Commandments. They baby-sit at
home, go mining on the moon, compute
data on a vast scale for our ultimate
good, and in one of these stories are
even elected to the top post of the
world the first Co-ordinator. Natu-
rally such paragons create their own
enemies, like the “Fundamentalists”
whose slogan is “The Earth must be
kept for the Earthman” and who de-
mand strict segregation of the robots
to the planets. This, too, has a strangely
familiar and credible ring.
My own preference is for the first
volume, “I, Robot,” because here all the
tales are linked together as a collection
of case-histories told in crisp, ironic,
finely turned phrases by the eminent
robopsychologist, Dr. Susan Calvin.
Asimov ironically makes this frigid old
medico more robot-like than any of her
mechanical patients. They need
psychiatric treatment when they get
a screw or two loose, just like we do;
they are subject to nervous breakdowns,
attacks of conscience, and the telling
of occasional little white lies.
“The Rest of the Robots” is a fat
omnibus containing two novels (really
S.F. detection, a dangerous business
unless the author plays the game as
honestly as Asimov) and lots of short
stories, among which the super-Jeeves,
TN3 (Tony), in “Satisfaction Guaran-
teed,” is outstanding.


THE ONLY THING
EXPENSIVE ABOUT
THESE WINES
IS THE TASTE
It's a wonderful thing to be able to
find a wine that is more-ishly
quaffable and at the same time
inexpensive.
Both light, delicate Miamba Hock,
and smooth, soft Miamba Claret
with its appealing finish, are
extremely well made wines-the
top show awards they have won,
both overseas and in Australia, are
evidence of this.
But both are moderately priced as
well as being very, very quaffable.
See for yourself I
ORLANDO
MIAMBA HOCK
MIAMBA CLARET
Produced and bottled by G. Gramp & Sons
Pty. Ltd., in South Australia's famous
Barossa Valley.
C 2778
f » itix*
ORLANDO
miamba ciaret
tsmxptsos!: m.n»:
<t« t pifcr e rifciu ot
m s
‘zL.-m
ORLANDO
MiambA hock
Books in brief
Tycoon
Howard Hughes. John Keats. Mac Gi-
bbon and Kee. $5.45.
ONE OF THE problems of the biog-
rapher of living figures is that the
moment the book is published it’s
apt to be out of date. John Keats’
biography of Howard Hughes is no ex-
ception. Nothing here about his receht
illness, incarceration in Las Vegas, or
grandiose scheme to snap up chunks
of the poker-machine pardise. No in-
dex, annoyingly, either; but this per-
functory hack work does assemble inter-
esting facts about Hughes’ painful early
thinness and shyness, his extraordinary
daring in invading Hollywood and mak-
ing “Hell’s Angels” without knowing
anything about movies, his round-the-
world flight and the building-up of
Trans World Airlines, his making pf
“The Outlaw” with the bovine Jane
Russell, his gradual withdrawal from
the world. From all this data one can
construct a portrait of dynamism, raw
energy, and nerve; but the. secretive
figure behind it all remains untouched.
Maslyn Williams ... true novel
French mistresses
The Sultans. Christine de Rivoyre.
Deutsch. $3.15.
HERE IS A deliciously naughty French
novel . . . light, frothy, and in some
ways as unnecessary as a foaming pink
bubble-bath. A woman’s story, but not
pop. mag. fare, it has bouncing pace
and rare elegance of style and should
make an entertaining alternative for
eye-sore TV viewers.
The three mistresses in the novel all
behave exactly as French mistresses are
popularly supposed to, and perhaps
really do. Solange’s bathroom is full
of frou-frou and clutter and her bed
is enthroned in an elaborate primitive
jungle decor from floor to ceiling. A
Giulietta Masina-type, permanently at
war with Paris taxi drivers and way-
ward objects like gears and clocks (but
living only for the nights passed With
her aristocratic, comfortably married
lover Laurent), Solange generates most
of the electric currents that charge the
book.
There is also a spicy touch of incest.
Laurent and his 18-year-old daughter
pet so convincingly in a nightclub that
they successfully arouse the jealousy of
the third “Sultan,” a middle-aged en-
trepreneur, who promptly declares his
own dishonorable intentions.
All this perspicacious superficiality
ends as riotously as it started with
everyone running round in circles and
living unhappily (but not too seriously)
ever after.
Trenchant viewpoint
The Poacher and the Squire. Charles
Chenevix Trench. Longmans. $6.60.
MR. TRENCH CALLS poaching the
second oldest profession. But, whatever
its relative antiquity, poaching is a
skilled and courageous calling. Per-
haps Australians can attribute some of
the spirit of enterprise and love of the
great outdoors we talk about so much
as natural characteristics to the willing-
ness of Britain to export some of its
skilled operators in this field to Botany
Bay.
Although deploring the decline in
poaching skills in England, which he
puts down to myxomatosis and the
“affluent society,” Mr. Trench had
little difficulty in finding some highly
skilled full-time poachers operating
within 100 miles of London. But today’s
poacher is likely to be on wheels. Some
have been caught in Jaguars, “though
not, as far as is known,” Mr. Trench
remarks, “in a Rolls-Royce.
Religious framework
The Far Side Of The Sky.
Maslyn
Williams.
Cheshire. $3.25.
ALTHOUGH, AS ITS introduction
makes plain, this book is drawn from
actual people and events, it is a true
novel because its characters, although
not imaginary, are fully imagined. As
a serious exploration of administrative
problems in New Guinea it must be
compared with G. C. O’Donnell’s
“Time Expired.”
Williams has to be considered within
the long present-day list of Catholic
writers for whom novels are important
(although not necessarily primary)
vehicles for discussion within a religious
framework. Religion is certainly of
essential importance here. The whole
train of events and tragedies centre
on a priest who is also an authority
on linguistics. The presence of Father
Herschell and his mission-trained
assistant, “Didimus,” in a patrol into
unexplored territory is the irritant fac-
tor that colors and subtly changes every
occurrence during an already compli-
cated undertaking.


PRIZE WINNERS FROM
1967 BRISBANE SHOW
NOW AVAILABLE
HUNTER RIVER VALLEY
WHITE BURGUNDY
BIN 3270 VINTAGE 1967
GOLD MEDAL winner as a 1967
Vintage Dry White.
HUNTER RIVER VALLEY
RIESLING
BIN 2955 VINTAGE 1966
SILVER MEDAL winner as a 1967
Vintage Hock.
Li ride man's
AUSTRALIA'S
GREATEST
PRIZE-WINNERS
CELLAR
MASTER
Two beauties
right out
of the locker
USUALLY I’M HAPPY to hide my
nom de vin. But not always. A couple
of years ago I conducted a series of
tastings that went on for several days.
I was assisted by a pleasant but slightly
supercilious gentleman who said at the
end of them: “Well, that’s that. I
thought they went quite well, though
I must say that I’m a bit fed up with
wine. I can’t understand how you fel-
lows gargle and gurgle all day. I’m
going home for a drink of something
else. In fact, I once read that after tast-
ing you should have ...”
“. . . a long, cold glass of Australian
beer.”
“Oh, you read it?”
“Read it, sir,” I replied. “I wrote it.”
But recognition can result in con-
fusion. Only the other day I was ap-
proached by a large, hearty individual.
“You’re the Cellarmaster,” he stated.
“It must be a fabulous job.”
“Well, not a job exactly,” I said
charmingly, in a sort of self-deprecating
way. “It’s more a generous sharing of
the sparkling pearls, so to speak. Yes,
my avid readers in The Bulletin —”
“The Bulletin?” he asked, “what’s
The Bulletin got to do with it? I
mean aren’t you Cellarmaster of the
good ship Bacchus D?”
He was right, of course, and it is a
fabulous job. Whenever I am called
upon, I have to stock the sloop’s cellar,
a locker fitted with suitable bottle
racks, with suitable bottles. It is not
an arduous job, though one is expected
to check the contents from time to
time when actually sailing.
Bacchus D, owned by hotelman
Phil Deaton, is a good-looking 50-footer,
with appropriate broad beam, which
almost made the Admiral’s Cup team.
It would have been a sensation at
Cowes. Recently I tasted a left-over
bottle of one of my selections for it.
The day before I had tasted one of its
successors. Both wines led me to a
recommendation.
The ship-cellared special was the
1962 Penfold’s Pinot Riesling Bin 365,
a rich, full-flavored white wine show-
ing considerable bottle age and having
benefited from it. The young wine was
the 1966 version of the same bin num-
ber which is shortly to be released. I
recommend that you buy some, and
then put it away.
Sure it can be drunk and enjoyed
young, but this is one of the few mar-
ques of Australian white wines that can
be cellared to be better appreciated
when real character has developed.
Sometimes I think we hear too much
about drinking the whites when fresh
and virginal. There is much more
subtlety to the older woman.
The line started in 1959 with the
Pinot Riesling Bin 302. Only this
afternoon at one minute past twelve
did I open a bottle to see how it was.
The bouquet was immediately obvious,
a strong, deep nose showing marked
Pinot style. The color is golden with
no hint of brown and just a tint of
green apparent. The flavor very mouth-
filling, reaching to those soft sides
quickly, and lingering like a true white
burgundy. The acid is very soft and
there is a slight “nuttiness” on the
finish. I do go on.
In. 1960 there was no binning of the
wine, hail destroying a promising crop.
The bin 295 succeeded in 1961, a Gold
Medal winning wine of very good
character. This was, and still is, more
acid than the 302 and is still develop-
ing, though it is six years old. Pen-
folds have sold lots of this in the past
at low prices, keeping back only a
bit for show purposes. It will continue
to feature well in white burgundy clas-
ses, showing how these wines can
mature.
In 1962 they called the wine Bin 365,
and the number has stuck. They were
getting too many complaints about
wines being out of stock as soon as they
were released, so have retained some
of these special numbers to be used
year after year for wines of the same
style and place. The ’62 was another
full wine, and the bottle I opened on
board the other day was delightful.
In 1963 and 1964 the style settled
down and became more or less fixed.
Brian McGuigan, a fine young wine-
maker, took over the job at Dalwood
from his father, Perc, and concentrated
on bringing out the full Pinot character,
yet not at the expense of delicacy. His
wines are light in color to start with,
and the nose can be slight. The acid
and balance are first-class, and this
provides the base for maturation. On
those foundations, the color, nose, and
flavor build and build.
Which leads to the ’66. Many try-
ing it may be slightly disappointed for
the first time. The wine is so delicate,
the virtues coy. It seems nothing more
than a pleasant dry white, almost a
quaffing wine. But the terrific qualities
are all there if you can bother to
wait.
The Pinot riesling material is from
the Hunter, the riesling being, of course,
Semilion. It has always been called
riesling in the Hunter and this is no
new merchandising trick. Both lots
of grapes are grown at the HVD vine-
yard, which Penfold bought in the early
’forties. The letters stand for Hunter
CONNOISSEUR
TABLE WINES
NOTES FROM LINDEMAN'S
CELLAR MANAGER:
This month has seen the planting at
Rouge Homme Vineyards, Coonawarra,
S.A., of Lindeman’s newest vineyard.
Sixty acres have been planted out with
over 36,000 rooted cuttings taken from
the nursery specially established for the
purpose in 1966. The area has been
named “Limestone Ridge” Vineyard
after the nature of the soil, and it con-
tains some of the highest land at Cona-
warra. The limestone is covered with one
to two feet of red loam soil, and the
vines will be able to establish their feeder
roots in it. Deeper roots will penetrate
the soft chalky limestone to reach a
supply of underground water twelve feet
below.
This same water has been tapped
with bores and pumps to provide a
frost prevention irrigation spray system,
an incidence of frost in the area is sig-
nificant. During the summer months the
young vines will be able to be watered
in dry weather to ensure constant
vigorous growth, which is of greatest
importance in establishing a healthy,
high-producing vineyard.
The variety selected for planting
Limestone Ridge Vineyard was Shiraz,
and the first commercial crop will be
picked in 1971.
Lindeman’s “Rouge Homme Claret”
is a well-known favourite from Coona-
warra. The 1963 Vintage is due for
release shortly, and it is a must for
any connoisseur’s cellar. Delightful to
drink now, the wine will live for very
many years, and will always retain its
fine flavour and delicate astringency.


STONYFELL OLD LODGE PORT
HMP 42
/
X
J
HI
Old Lodge
PfiPT
1 PINT 6 Ft
Gold Medal Class 18
1967 Royal Sydney
Show
A high class port in the true
tawny style—rich and smooth
made from Grenache
grapes from the Adelaide
foothills. Drink it as the ideal
finish to a pleasant lunch or
dinner. Enjoy it in that quiet
contemplative moment before
bed-time.
Lay down a supply of this
gold medal wine now, for
future enjoyment.
Order now from any leading
licensed retailer or hotel. Ask
for it at your favourite
restaurant.
Drink Well-Drink
on
wfctt
PRODUCT OF H. M. MARTIN & SON PTY. LTD. STONYFELL ROAD, BURNSIDE, SOUTH AUST 5066
Valley Distillery. It seems incredible
that once upon a time Hunter
wines were distilled to make cheap
spirit.
The White Pinot and Semilion are
grown on sandy loam. The grapes
ripen at the same time and are picked,
mixed, and fermented together. There
is little or no further blending. Because
of this blending from the vine it is
difficult to determine the exact per-
centages of the two varieties, but I was
told “it’s about three of Semilion to one
of White Pinot.” Incidentally, Perc
McGuigan still spells the variety
“Pineal,” a name once used in France
and undoubtedly passed on to the
Hunter by James Busby when he
brought back all his different cuttings
nearly 150 years ago.
The ’66 365 is in some ways an
historic wine, for it was the last one
made at the old Dalwood winery near
Branxton. This year the grapes were
taken to the new Dalwood at Wybong
and processed there. Perc and Brian
McGuigan are the manager and wine-
maker respectively at Wybong now
and are settling in well at that tremen-
dous new enterprise.
Brian is one of the bright, dedicated
young wine men one meets more and
more these days and he will be part
of the expansion that is in store for
the wine industry. A significant part,
I predict. It is interesting that he is
not a Roseworthy graduate but learned
his business from his father and other
top production men like Max Schubert
and Don Ditter.
Penfolds regard this particular white
as their top example of the white
burgundy style. Comparisons are be-
coming less and less necessary, but we
can still broadly define whites into
either of two groups. The fruity,
full-flavored, soft, and round style
(white burgundy, with chablis the more
austere cousin of the same family) or
the aromatic, elegant, flowery, and
crisply clean (hocks or rieslings, with
moselle the slightly sweet sister). The
202 Traminer Riesling is an outstand-
ing example of the latter, and the ’67
vintage of it a bottler, 60 percent of
the wine being Traminer from Minch-
inbury and Wybong.
One stolen afternoon we were out
in Bacchus D, the crew testing the
blue-hulled sloop, and I tasting the
wines. We were punching through the
Heads into a 20-odd knot breeze, white
flecks on the water, the sun on full
sails, the rigging taut and singing in
the wind. We were eating large turkey
rolls and drinking dry red out of
plastic cups. One of the huge U.K.
liners steamed in full of migrants and
apprehension, and we went over to
welcome them to Australia. Keeping
to windward, we went very close and
the liner listed as almost all the new
settlers waved to us.
And as we waved back we could
imagine them saying, at the first sight
of their new country, “Well, it can’t be
that bad, can it?”


MATEUS ROSE
The enchanting Pink Wine
from Portugal with its
gorgeous amber tint and
gentle suggestion of sparkle.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: TAYLOR FERGUSON & CO. PTY. LTD.
P.O. BOX 50, CLIFTON HILL, VICTORIA
TF4OR
COMPANY LAW ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The Standing Committee of Attorneys-General of the Com-
monwealth and the States recently appointed a Company Law
Advisory Committee to advise on certain aspects of the
Uniform Companies Acts. The terms of reference of the Com-
mittee are as follows:
“To enquire into and report on the extent of the protection
afforded to the investing public by the existing provisions of
the Uniform Companies Acts and to recommend what addi-
tional provisions (if any) are reasonably necessary to in-
crease that protection
The Committee does not intend to conduct any public hearing
but invites any persons or organisations wishing to place their
views before it to forward written submissions to:
The Secretary,
Company Law Advisory Committee,
Attorney-General's Department,
Canberra, A.C.T. 2600.
Submissions should reach the Secretary by November 1, 1967.
Persons or organisations who have already made submissions
to the Standing Committed of Attorneys-General with respect
to the matters referred to the Advisory Committee are advised
that all submissions made to the Standing Committee since
the commencem'ent of the Uniform Companies Acts will be
available to the Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee
will nevertheless be glad to receive any further submissions
which such p'ersons or organisations may wish to present in
addition to, or in substitution for, those already made.
Authorised by the Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Dept.
A 1
LETTERS
On Catholic education
It is interesting and refreshing to see
that any system of education is pre-
pared to face up to the big questions
about what it is aiming at and what it
is actually achieving. Brian Buckley’s
article “What Kind of Catholic Educa-
tion?” raises such questions about
Catholic education, and points out the
vital necessity of accurate statistical
information and the value of the
thorough research of Dr. Noel Ryan SJ.
Of Dr. Ryan’s findings, the one
which gives most obvious cause for con-
cern is that, in the period studied,
Catholic students performed less well
than others in first-year university.
Mr. Buckley suggests that the figures
indicate a possibility that Catholics as
a group may be less well equipped in
intellectual maturity and in social tem-
perament, or may suffer “group ten-
sions” in university life. He goes on
to make some interesting suggestions
regarding different orders of values and
norms in Catholic schools. My belief is
that the more important cause of failure
at university is in the area of some-
thing Mr. Buckley referred to only
once: intellectual maturity.
What I am suggesting is that many
students who matriculated in Catholic
schools have been educated with too
much dependence upon their teachers
for their success. They were inclined
to be unready to take responsibility for
their own efforts, and remained over-
much in a kind of delayed intellectual
adolescence. Expressing this a little
differently, the temptation in examining
a deficiency in a system of Catholic
education as compared with others is
to explain it by Catholic reasons, when
it may lie in its deficiencies as a
system of education.
The greatest difference between the
Catholic education system as an educa-
tional system and “the others com-
bined” lies, I think, in the degree to
which results are (or have been)
achieved by external pressure: “moral”
pressure, disciplinatory and the gener-
ally greater authoritarian atmosphere
which made such pressures possible.
Sometimes almost a “hot-house” atmos-
phere of study prevailed, and the re-
sults were often extraordinary: students
regarded as poor material by voca-
tional-guidance experts achieved passes
of quite high standard. This high
achievement perhaps over-achieve-
ment is most impressive at a school
level. The price is not paid until later.
The stronger pressure upon the
Catholic child to high (or over)
achievement arose from the awareness


CAMBRIDGE
■CREDIT
CORPORATION
LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’
Act of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950.)
DEBENTURE
STOCK
3 mths., 5% p.a. • 6 mths., 6% p.a.
• 12 mths., 7% p.a. • 2 yrs., I\% p.a.
• 3 yrs., 8% p.a. • 4, 6 or 10 yrs.,
H% p.a.
HOW TQ INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on
the form attached to, and referred to
in, the Prospectus which may be
obtained from:
• any branch of the Bank of N.S.W.
• any member of the Stock Exchange
• the Company’s office: Cambridge
House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone 27 8621
REGISTERS:
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane
Adelaide • Canberra • Newcastle
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without any obligation,
a copy of your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
among teachers in Catholic schools that
the financial cost of a Catholic edu-
cation was such that only by means of
scholarships would some of their stu-
dents be able to hope to complete an
education. The same financial situation
also frequently meant that students had
no second chances at exams. Overall,
the higher pressure is understandable,
and if the more intense effort was hav-
ing any success at all Dr. Ryan’s find-
ing of a better pass rate in the Matricu-
lation would accord with expectations.
There are two important problems
arising from the situation I have de-
scribed. The first is the “price” referred
to. Maintenance of standards by ex-
ternal pressure through secondary
school goes through and beyond the
time when a boy should be learning
to undertake an increasing responsi-
bility for his own behaviour. The result
is what we have described as a kind of
delayed intellectual adolescence. When
the lid of the pressure-cooker is re-
moved upon entry to the university,
there is a reaction, which results in
the lower achievement in first year.
Most survive this, of course, and go on
to perform as well as others. A less-
fortunate group gets no chance of going
further.
The other problem is that “success”
provides its own temptation. There is
no doubt about it that the old methods
achieved often remarkable results at
school. In the change toward more
emphasis upon the development of in-
tellectual maturity some lowering of
these results is to be expected not
quite so many scholarships, a few more
failures, and so on. Will this be
accepted, or will the sight of students
wasting time, failing to meet study re-
quirements, and giving other signs of
examination failure arouse in their
teachers a feeling that the price was
too high, and the external pressure
must be restored? I hope not.
Father John Hosie, SM
Lismore, N.S.W.
Defend Australia Where?
The “C.M.F. Officer” of “Defend Aus-
tralia Where?” (8., Sept. 16) speaks
of Australia’s dependence on the United
Kingdom before 1939. This ignores
the fact that the British Empire of
that time was, in matters of war and
foreign policy, a single polity of which
Australia was a part. Pursuant to the
decisions of Imperial Conferences be-
tween the two World Wars, White-
hall implemented foreign policy and
the armed forces of the Indian Empire
and the several Dominions formed part
of an integrated whole. Australian “de-
pendence” there might have been; it
was not the dependence of a small ally
on a great one. The fall of Singapore
modified but did not wholly abolish the
realities of this state of things. It has
quite ended only since the Suez debacle
of 1956 and Britain’s subsequent with-
drawal from everything east of the
Goodwin Sands.
Your author’s suggestion that Austra-
lia’s armed forces should be deployed
in Asia to back up Australian foreign
policy is incontestable. In peace or war
that is what armed forces are for: the
Clausewitzian axiom about wars being
an extension of policy makes the point.
Your author’s notion that our foreign
policy can be of independent effect and
can be more than a marginal weight
in a satisfactory balance of power and
supported by larger powers is simple
vanity.
Your author’s discussion of the equip-
ment and strategic roles of our three
armed forces makes a splendid argu-
ment for a single defence force on the
Canadian pattern. His notion that the
CMF, a body of amateurs, could serve
any sensible purpose (except perhaps
in guerilla warfare on Australian terri-
tory after a formal defeat) ignores the
modern need for every last infantry-
man to be a highly skilled technician,
taught by long training to apply his
trade in awkward military situations.
The CMF is a sentimental joke, per-
petrated by the political influence of
Blimps and a restricted war budget.
This is not at all to say that Aus-
tralia should make no warlike prepara-
tions: Allies and God help them that
show willingness to help themselves,
within the limits of their power. We
must be ready to shed blood in order
to maintain our privileges.
George Baker
Armidale, N.S.W.
TV's sensitive areas
I imagine there are many of us who are
getting pretty damn tired of the way
you people excerpt statements and
print them as though the excerpts are
all that was said. This sort of reportage-
by-inference is not only misleading but
frequently malign and argues a singu-
lar disrespect for both the truth and
any proper standard of journalism.
I think it was stretching the truth
to rather ludicrous lengths to say
(8., Sept. 9) that I “had some harrow-
ing tales to tell of the way the ‘Aus-
tralian’ slashes and changes . . . copy
not simply in style but in content,”
without saying some of the rest of the
things in the paper which I delivered
at the Grafton Seminar. In the portion
of that paper which dealt principally
with the Press in this country, my main
concern was with the close ties between
commercial newspapers and commercial
television in the sensitive and important
areas of the dissemination of news, of
comment on current affairs, and of the
shaping of public opinion. Through-
out that portion of the paper, all my
emphases were upon the Press as it
relates to TV, either in terms of
economics and policy-control or in
terms of the type of criticism of tele-
vision which is printed.
A successful pooling of ighorance in
the search for useful knowledge is con-
siderably better than the exposure of
ignorance in print, weekly, in the
search for unprincipled profit.
Kit Denton
Wentworth Falls, N.S.W.


STRANGE
PLACE FORA
COMPUTER SALESMAN?
Not when he's an IBM Industry specialist. His
job is to help customers solve information
problems. Behind him is a complete back-up
team of applied scientists, systems represent-
atives, customer engineers and many others. All
of them have years of education, training and
experience in finding new and better ways for
individual customers to use IBM equipment.
Our Industry specialist must understand project
management, design engineering, process con-
trol, inventory management. He can only gain
that understanding on the job.
The IBM man who calls on your company brings
with him a thorough understanding, a prac-
tical understanding of your business and its
problems. He can show you the
most effective way to apply IBM
data processing to your operation.
V
1
#
1
mm..
K
fnl
*:T
15634
ggltflitfMMMi
fmM
%
18M87.107.1 OOSc


if you’re
looking for
a better
Fino sherry
you may
never find it
xi-)
PSODUCID r, BOTTIW
ANGOVE'S Pt'v. mb
BBNMARtC SOUTH AUSTHAtU
■ Mi imiien-ozs. ■
but all that searching
will make you thirsty
so take along a bottle of
ANGOYES
FINO DRV
Distributed throughout Australia by Dalgety
Trading Co. Pty. Ltd. In Sydney also John
Mackenzie & Co. Pty. Ltd.. In Melbourne
also Van Cooth & Co. Pty. Ltd.
The connoisseurs choice
MARKO VERMOUTH
Acting with initiative
Reference your COMMENT (8., Sept.
16). I was delighted to hear of our
politicians making such statesmanlike
moves, but puzzled that I hadn’t read
or heard anything about it. But, as
you say, it has not happened. How true,
how true that we should make efforts
to show that we can stand on our own
two feet, that we have grown up. In
an emergency we could put an army
in the field of a million men. I like
your two lines: “The possibility for
Australia to act with initiative and in-
dependence in its own region is enorm-
ous.” Oh, Mr. Holt and company of
Canberra, for God’s sake and Aus-
tralia’s, wake up, prove to us that
you are men with vision, guts, and
initiative and quit cringing before
Asians and covering our flag with U.S.
stars!
H. K. Beveridge
Woollahra, N.S.W.
Thinking Kiwis
How did Michael Baume form his
opinions and with whom did he con-
sult before writing his article “Will New
Zealand turn to Japan?”
He certainly didn’t ask me or my
mates, Sir James Wattie, Sir Leslie
Munro, or a hell of a lot of other
thinking Kiwis (who can raise them-
selves above petty parochialism and
insularity) for their opinions. Advance
Australia!
H. P. Warcing
Raumati Beach, N.Z.
Reviewing poetry
Alexander Craig, in his Forum article,
“Australian Poetry—Nobody’s Rocking
the Boat” (8., Sept. 16), seems to feel
he must take this (dare I say enjoyable)
task upon himself —he thereupon pro-
ceeds to hack at the predictable old
banners as if that had never been done
before (McAuley and Harris—and this
the late 1960 s!).
Mr. Craig’s swipe at local poets
(“All Friends Together”) is basically
only an acknowledgment that poets, like
schoolteachers or footballers, form into
cliques at the drop of an adjective; but
I do object to his insinuation that any
critical comment they might make, either
of each other’s work in public or, by
extension, of Mr. Craig’s article, must
be ipso facto invalid.
Mr. Craig himself is not beyond
intimating that he, himself, is “in”
with certain parties: “It’s worthy of
note that, in personal letters, Gwen
Harwood has long expressed . . for
instance, or his smug assertion that
“Evan Jones is the most underrated
poet in Australia” —on the basis of only
his recent (and surely unpublished)
work.
With such pointed displays of his
own, Mr. Craig leaves me resentful
when he sneers at “Geoff and John and
Nancy . . . Tom and Les, Robert,
Nan . . . Rod and someone else” (yes,
of course, I’m Tom!) for displaying
sinister and not impartial motivations
should they be confronted with each
other’s work. Certainly I’d rather be
reviewed by a fellow poet than by
some of the alternatives.
I would certainly agree with Mr.
Craig’s high valuation of Gwen
Harwood and (with reservations) of
Randolph Stow, a remarkably uneven
poet. But I must point out that most
of Mr. Craig’s article (when he is not
flogging dead horses) tends to side-
track itself with (sometimes justified)
complaints about lack of experiment.
Mr. Craig’s own quote from Eliot
(“No vers is libre for the man who
wants to do a good job”) is rather
more to the point and should have
prevented Mr. Craig from dismissing
Francis Webb (one of the real giants
of our period) merely on the grounds
that “he is conservative in his choice
of stanza patterns.” Stanza patterns
indeed! It’s the guts that count.
Mr. Craig’s whole essay only makes
me increasingly wonder just how many
people have really bothered to sort
out the best work that has been done
here in the past decade. Rocking the
boat might be fair enough, and great
fun when there are so many sitting
shots, but I would have been rather
more convinced if, behind his gener-
alities, Mr. Craig had shown that he
was even 4 aware of the whole new
alignment that Australian poetry has
taken over the past few years. Has
Mr. Craig actually talked with any
young Australian poets lately?
Thomas W. Shapcott
Ipswich, Qld.
No doubt Alexander Craig has rocked
the poetic boat (8., Sept. 16) with the
best of intentions, but it seems to me:
(1) That at present quatrains are
not conspicuous in Australian poetry
quite the reverse, despite his affirma-
tions.
(2) That our poetry lacks popular
appeal on the whole despite the valiant
efforts of Fitzgerald, Hope, and Mc-
Auley, whose fine efforts he depreciates.
If it had basis in common earth it
would fare better. Such basis it could
get from being guided by Hope’s
discursive mode.
(3) To dismiss McAuley’s “Captain
Quiros” not in quatrains by the way
as “shallow, self-conscious, stilted
metrics” and to praise his earlier books
is plain silly, since while “Under Alde-
baran” is lightning flashes, “Captain
Quiros” is a whole poetic sky.
But I do agree that our anthologies
or anthologists have run to seed
largely because they compile now by
personal and no longer by open invi-
tation. Few avenues of publication are
open, and these are mostly selective
on a narrow basis, having nothing to
do with Hope’s discursive mode.
Martin Haley
Paddington, Qld.


The successful man also lives in a
Gilbarco
Centrally Heated Home
. -#:
No wonder he’s the family favourite. Clean warm
air circulating in every room throughout the
coldest periods of the year. No huddling around
ineffective one-room heaters!
No frigid early morning toes! Instead, the won-
derful feeling of being able to wear summertime
clothes throughout your home every day of the
year—and with simple, finger-tip control!
Low fuel costs, too, and all fully automatic,
even the economical oil burner—that’s what
Gilbarco Central “Whole House” Heating means
in the successful man’s home. You can get all
this for little more than the cost of heating
two or three rooms with “huddle-over” heating!
r
Two systems from which to choose: The popular
Hot Water Central Heating system incorporating
The Potterton Boiler unit, which supplies
throughout-the-home heat with a complete hot
water service: or a fully ducted warm air system
in which air is fan-circulated from a Gilbarco
Warm Air Furnace.
Both heating units are compact enough to place
in the garage, laundry, basement or even under
the house.
For full details, contact the Gilbarco office in
your city—who will advise you your nearest
Gilbarco Dealer—located in all cities and major
country towns.
Gilbarco
I OUST. LTD.
ENGINEERS IN HEATING
MANUFACTURERS AND SUPPLIERS OF DOMESTIC, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL HEATING EQUIPMENT
QLD. NEWSTEAD 5-3121 N.S.W. ALEXANDRIA 519-1888 VIC. THORNBURY 44-0581 TAS. HOBART 3-2939 S.A. FINDON 45-1141 W.A. BELMONT PARK 65-1211


/ :• r
m
A !
7
sa
rcA
r.,
»■ '
4
<,
>
v*
Si
i .
4 -
S #
** -*
A t
fc * <
*■
% *
* *
► # #
* #
• %
* •
0 *
When only the best will d 0...
and isn't that all the time?
