

The Bulletin
Irt-BkUAkY ]s6B
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Is General Motors
good for Australia?
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspopcr. Australia 25c, New Zealand 25c, New Guinea 32c, Singapore $1.25, Malaysia $1.25


*Wr
SUT.
CUNNAMULIA
o
o
lAMODKA
e
MIA
NEW 1
H WALES
k WEST *
\ jmu
14#*
OSYDNEY
y 1
comm
' > ft.
EGA
C r C R t A r*J2£ £$
RIME
e
HOBART
You’re looking at a man travelling with C.C.C.*
(*Credit Card Convenience)
Smart? Shrewd? Not really, just applying a little commonsense and taking advantage of a Federal Group
Credit Card. If you’re doing business anywhere on the east coast from Queensland to Tasmania, a Federal
Group Credit Card can help you, too. It’s your passport to Australia’s largest chain of international standard
hotels. At a Federal Group Hotel you feel at home you eat better relax better so you do a better job.
The same goes for conventions. They’re more enjoyable, more efficiently organised, and more exciting at a
Federal Group Hotel. And, remember, a direct teleprinter link between Federal Group Hotels throughout
Australia gives immediate confirmation of your interstate booking.
MEMBERS OF THE FEDERAL GROUP:
Melbourne Menzies Hotel
Phone 60 15SI
Savoy Plaza Hotel
Phone 62 4141
Hotel Federal
Phone 62 3721
Sydney Hampton Court Hotel
Phone 31 7081
Menzies Hotel
Phone 20232
Brisbane Lcnnons Hotel Toowoomba
Phone 32 0131
Lennons Hotel/Motel
Phone 2 2433
Hobart Wrest Point Riviera Hotel
Phone 5 1021
Adelaide Hotel Australia Phone 6 8581. In Association with the Federal Group.
Live Better. . . with a Federal Group Credit Card
National Sales Office, Melbourne. 62 3012


If you’re not
interested in
Australia
don’t read the
Bulletin
If you are
interested in
Australia
how can you
not read the
Bulletin ?
The best way not to miss
out on Australia is through
a Bulletin subscription.
Under a special concession offer still current you
can now buy The Bulletin for 20c a copy instead of
25c. With this special offer Australian readers
can take out a 12-month subscription to
The Bulletin for $10.40. This represents a
saving of $2.60 on a year's issues. This offer is
available to Australian readers only.
NOW
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me the next 52 issues of the Bulletin. I enclose a cheque for $10.40.
NAME.........
ADDRESS....
(BLOCK LETTERS)
(BLOCK 'LETTERS)
Cd Renewal Q New subscription.Tick as appropriate.
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTION DEPT., BOX 4088,’G.P.O., SYDNEY 2001.
The Bulletin
VOL. 89, No. 4387
FEBRUARY 3, 1968
ESTABLISHED 1880
Is General Motors good
for Australia? is
COLUMNS
One More Week 5
Batman's Melbourne 9
Out & About
by Daphne Guinness 10
On the Margin
by Ross Campbell 11
Peter Samuel, "Observer" 12-13
Speculator's Diary 40
Cellarmaster 61
COMMENT 12_
AUSTRALIA 14_
SPECIAL FEATURES 24_
OVERSEAS 31_
BUSINESS & FINANCE 35
THE LAND 52^
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 53
COLOR PORTFOLIO 57^
BOOKS 58_
LETTERS 62
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney 2001—Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne 3000 Newspaper House,
Collins Street. Phone: 63-3341.


™ WHr MS n
Power and
sophistication.
The new 1900 A series gives a better
cost/performance ratio than ever before.
Five new models —the 1901 A, 1902 A, 1903 A,
1904 A and 1906 A have been added to the existing
I.C.T. 1900 Series. All can provide direct-access—
even the compact 1901 A. This means that the
advantages of direct-access are available at much
lower cost than ever before. Cobol and Fortran can
be used with all models too!
With the introduction of this low-cost, direct-
access capability, new computer users will have
increased speed and flexibility plus the advantage
of being able to build-up easily to the largest
system embracing real-time multi-access opera-
tions.
Five new processors are available with the 1900
Series. All are fully compatible with the existing
1900 processors and use the same peripherals and
software. They use the latest type of integrated
circuits and offer multi-access; multi-program-
ming; increased peripheral handling; and the
most advanced operating systems.
Find out more, get in touch with your local
I.C.T. office.
roT
I.C.T. International Computers and Tabulators Australia Pty. Limited.
24.135


ONE MORE
WEEK
A LOT GOING ON
RIGHT opposite reports in last week's
London “Economist” on British with-
drawal from Singapore and Malaysia
is a cheery Qantas advertisement, with
a banner headline asking “What are
all those Englishmen up to in Singa-
pore?” followed by copy beginning,
“You'll find a lot going on in Singa-
pore. And Englishmen taking a big
part . . .”
REPRISALS
THE DUST raised by the postal strike
is now beginning to settle. The postal
workers may have been fighting for a
principle but at times it looked as if
they were fighting anyone and every-
one: the PMG, the ACTU, the De-
partment of Labor. The secretary of
the APWU, Mr. Slater, also gave as
his forceful, if inelegant, opinion, that
the Prime Minister could “drop dead.”
Relations with the Press were not
too happy, and certainly the Press
was not charmed with the childish run-
around it got from Mr. Slater in Can-
berra. However, the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” was singled out for special
treatment: it was excluded from both
mass meetings at Wentworth Park.
TCN Channel 9, which is associated
with the “Daily Telegraph” was kept
out of the second meeting although in
point of fact TCN had given more
time on the air to the strikers’ cause
than it had to the Government case.
The “Daily Telegraph” probably
was most forthright and consistent in
its condemnation of the strike but
there can have been few issues on
which Australian papers have been
more unanimous. It was “reckless” and
“irresponsible” from leader writers
right across the country. Presumably,
only “reckless” and “irresponsible”
people would single out one organisa-
tion, or the employees of one organisa-
tion, for childish reprisals.
OFF TARGET
WHEN we saw him, just ahead of his
Sydney concert, Paul Jones, co-star with
Jean Shrimpton in “Privilege,” was
wearing a green leather jacket, a
flower-power shirt, blue corduroy jeans
with tassels, brown socks, red shoes, and
a dramatic pallor. “Sixteen millimetre
will be to the next 10 years what the
guitar was to the last,” Jones told us,
pointing out that young people with
ambition on the English op-pop scene
are now busy shooting movies on tiny
budgets instead of investing in instru-
ments and amplifiers.
Was “Privilege,” we asked, an
authentic picture of life in the pop
world? “It wasn’t quite on target as a
satire, and the people who made it
used all the publicity material they
condemned in the film. For instance, I
was asked to go to a meeting with
crowds of people just before the pic-
ture started. Somebody said, ‘What
about haircuts?’ And Vidal Sassoon
came rushing through the crowd at me
with a great comb and started slashing
it across my head. He said, ‘I think the
hair is going to do this —and this.’ ” I
said, “Are you serious?” to the director
Peter Watkins. “Don’t you realise this
is what the film is supposed to be
attacking?” There was a stunned silence
after that.
FRIEND ON BALI
DONALD FRIEND, looking appro-
priately artistic in deep-sea blue shirt
and orange trousers, was seeing old
friends in Sydney while he waited for
a visa to return to the Balinese village
he has adopted as his latest home.
Friend, one of Australia’s most
travelled painters, has been living on
Bali for the past five months —paint-
ing and writing about the village life
around him. He considers the island
a phenomenon in a world “where in-
creased transport is making it difficult
to find a place unspoiled by the tourist
trade,” and is hoping in future to
divide his time between Bali and Aus-
tralia.
Island life is not new to Friend.
He spent some time in the Torres
Strait Islands in his youth and lived
for six years in a coastal part of Cey-
lon. A recently published essay of im-
pressions of his Balinese village may
become chapter one in a book “loosely
related to living on islands.”
“I've kept diaries usually illus-
Donald Friend... all is illusion
trated ones for 20-odd years, using
them as sort of dictionaries for my
paintings. They record places, con-
versations with people; writing is very
hard for me. I’m not a professional
writer, as I am a professional painter,
but sometimes you need another means
if you’re going to express all the things
you want to.”
Friend’s paintings begin as tiny
sketches, done perhaps in a notebook
at a village celebration or in the mar-
ket. “I like to paint the main figures
from life —it might be somebody who
comes round trying to sell me some-
thing, or someone on the beach . . .
if I can get them to sit still, because
they don't like to. They’re usually
amused about the finished painting,
but indifferent.”
Despite the indifference, Friend has
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Those who love England must be
pained as well by the abandonment of
the auxiliary fire service and the terri-
torial army.
—The “Washington Post”
Men in shorts are turning Collins
Street into Cavill Avenue, Surfers Para-
dise.
—Sidney Sinclair
Nobody knows, or can know, very
much about world affairs until he or
she has visited the U.S. and the
U.S.S.R. I was in the U.S. in 1947 and
1963. I visited Russia for the first time
in 1967.
—Arthur Calwell
Choirs don’t mind singing to empty
churches. To sing well is all that
matters.
—Organist Michael Dudman
Neither Federal nor State Govern-
ments want local authorities to be any-
thing other than dustbins for unwanted
services.
—Councillor Dorothy Buchanan, of Kew
The British attitude toward Australia
is a compound of upper-class conde-
scension, a professional or intellectual
superiority complex, middle-class snob-
bery over accent, and sturdy artisan
self-interest.
—(London “Times"
It is no good Mr. Wilson saying a
stronger Britain economically is a
Britain better able to serve the Com-
monwealth. This is like offering gloves
to a man whose hands have been
amputated.
—New Zealand “Dominion"
If Mr. Calwell found the conditions
so acceptable in Russia, why did he
come back to mix with the hillbillies?
—Sir Henry Bolte


■Ck
6
P.A.
NET
FIXED
TERM
Don’t give your savings a
life sentence.
NO FIXED TERM means your
investment, plus dividend,
is readily available for
withdrawal. You earn a
handsome 6% p.a. net (current
rate). There are no deductions.
Your dividend is paid twice
yearly. Your security is backed
by $3l million assets. It’s good
conduct to write for brochure.
It BUILDING
Fwnm
s^;
gttlPooo *t *55?-
Funds guaranteed for withdrawal
up to $lO,OOO per investor.
The progressive building society
ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward —General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: 36/38 Ormonde Parade,
Hurstville. Ph 57 0201. CITY OFFICE: 82
Elizabeth Street. Phone 28 2801. MIRANDA
OFFICE: 551 The Kingsway. Phone
524 6466. PARRAMATTA OFFICE: 167
Macquarie Street. Phone 635 4574.
CHATSWOOD OFFICE: 39 Spring Street.
Phone 41 3570. BONDI JUNCTION OFFICE:
450 Oxford Street. Phone 38 3196.
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office
Please send free, comprehensive liter-
ature to:
NAME
ADDRESS
BY 483
found that art is an important fact
of everyday living to almost every
Balinese. “The poorest sort of house
—even a mud hut —has its shrine to
the gods, beautifully carved.
“The carvers work like guilds in
a hangover from feudal times. There’ll
be a high caste master, who works on
masterpieces, and he’ll employ 20 or
30 people. The farmers use this feudal
method, too. And the village works
on a project as a kind of club—com-
missioning carvers, bringing in dan-
cers, and orchestras.
“There are certain rhythms in
their dancing and in their music which
carry through in other things they do
in their speech, when they walk, even
when they play football. It has fas-
cinated me to watch it.”
Friend is a humorous, gregarious
man, and in most critical appraisals
of his paintings, the epithet “witty” is
bound to appear somewhere. He be-
longed to a band of painters who
created something of a commotion
here in the ’forties (“although we’re
pretty old hat now”), but before he
became a painter, his parents had him
firmly headed toward a life on the
land.
He’s also lived in Nigeria and Italy,
and he’s hoping to re-visit Europe be-
tween times in Bali and Australia. “I
like to go back to see the really great
paintings you can never see them
all.
“Some of the newest paintings seem
to be ephemeral. They cost about the
same as a new car, so why should they
last any longer. It’s not the way I
feel, but it’s the way other people
seem to. All is transient, all is illusion.”
COLORFUL COURSE
THE GUITAR that Dave Guard lifts
out of the case is a palette of colors.
The fingerboard is covered in rows of
neat, colored stickers. This is not more
psychedelic gimmickry; it is a guide to
a unique method of playing music with
the help of colors. Guard, an American
born in Hawaii, has been working
steadily on the technique since he left
the Kingston Trio to settle in Sydney
five years ago.
He gave up a successful career singing
popular ballads with the trio and earn-
ing $lOO,OOO a year because he felt they
were stagnating musically. The other
members have since retired, wealthy, in
the United States before reaching the
age of 30.
Guard, 33, in his own words, hasn’t
made a dime since he came to live at
Whale Beach with his artist wife, raise
three children, and write a book on his
color theory of music. He has just spent
18 months in Los Angeles completing
the book and paying for its publication.
“Color Guitar” is a sheaf of pages in-
cluding text, exercises, color chart, and
stickers, enclosed in a large box, and
it could revolutionise the teaching of
music.
A number of American publishers are
interested in it. Walt Disney Produc-
tions are enthusiastic about Guard’s
idea., and established musicians are
already using it. “Even one of Ali
Akbar Khan’s pupils has my stickers on
his sitar,” said Guard.
The principle is color coding of
musical notes, using 12 colors of the
spectrum. Holes punched in pages of
the book can be fitted over the color
chart and indicate possible color com-
binations on the fingerboard. The book
rejects the idea that a “red” sound is
one intense enough to drive you mad, a
“green” sound is melancholy, and so
on. The technique is flexible enough for
use on many kinds of musical instru-
ments, other than the guitar; techni-
color piano keyboards are just one
extension.
According to Guard, the method en-
ables musicians to experiment with
chord patterns and at the same time is
simple enough for his baby daughter to
use to pluck out a tune. Guard names
Dave Guard. .. circle of keys
Bach and Sir Isaac Newton as the pre-
cursors of the idea. “Bach was the first
man to write for all 12 keys. He saw
that all the notes were equally spaced
from one another on the piano.
“Newton tied the rainbow to its tail,
forming a circle. Now music theory
uses the circle of keys and art theory
uses a circle of color. I just wanted
to put the two together and see if
colors that look harmonious make notes
that sound harmonious, and if contrast-
ing colors make clashing notes,” he said.
Before Guard went to Los Angeles to
finish the book he chose that city
because publishing costs are low there
he visited Sweden to see the man
who inspired “Color Guitar”: George
Russell. Russell had earlier developed
a course for jazz musicians in New
York, with the help of the Modern
Jazz Quartet, and Guard first met him
in 1959.
Guard is hopeful that an American
publisher will eventually take over pro-
duction of “Color Guitar.” But at a
market price, just under $l4 a copy, he
is pessimistic about Australia’s chances
of ever seeing the book in shops.


B 6
m
Come fly with PAL to the Philippines
Eastern hospitality
with a Spanish
accent. In English.
Manila, our home town, is your key to three
continents-and over 7,000 islands. You’ll
fall for the friendly Philippines. An inspired
blend of Asia, The South Seas, old Spain and
the modern West. Orchids grow wild in
Corregidor’s bomb-scarred tunnels. A centuries
old pirate outrigger spreads Op art sails.
And where else can you look down on an island
on a lake on an island on a lake on an island
in the ocean? We specialise in the unique.
Fly in on a big P. A.L. DC-8, any Monday or
Thursday. Stop as long as you like. Planes
leave Manila every day for just about
everywhere. Ask your travel agent.
ITokyo
%
S
Taiwan
Hong
Kong
Manila
Singapore
Sydney
Honolulu
San Francisco
©
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
For schedules and tour information see your Travel Agent or write to P.A.L.,49 York Street. Sydney 2000.(29 4123); or 422 Collins Street. Melbourne 3000 (67 3414)
| Ansett-ANA General Sales Agents for Australia.


1
Z-
ri
mm
Australians
expect
better
plastics
products
like this kitchenware, made out of
Hostalen
The quality of the plastics products you can buy is quickly
improving because of the raw material Hostalen.
Take these kitchen plastics. Because they are made out of
Hostalen they are rigid and strong, yet won’t break or
crack if you drop them. When you fill them with boiling
water or heavy loads, they won’t bulge out of shape.
They are hygienic and extremely easy to clean. They are
colorful, beautiful, modern in design. Hostalen high
density polyethylene is the top quality plastics raw
material developed in Germany and now produced in
Australia.
Manufacturers who use Hostalen make top quality
plastics products. The shop that sells them is changing its
ideas about plastics products and wants to give you the
very best.
You deserve better things made out of plastics, so it’s
really worth asking for the ones made from Hostalen.
LOOK FOR THE LABEL
IAHLII/DKb)
Hostalen is manufactured in Australia by:- HOECHST CHEMICALS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED and distributed by:-
AUSTRALIAN HOECHST LIMITED Plastics Division MELBOURNE SYDNEY ADELAIDE BRISBANE PERTH
“ Hostalen” is the registered trade mark of Farbwerke Hoechst AG.


NO FIXED
TERM
Don’t give your savings a
life sentencb.
NO FIXED TERM means your
investment, plus dividend,
is readily available for
withdrawal. You earn a
handsome 6% p.a. net (current
rate). There are no deductions.
Your dividend is paid twice
yearly. Your security is backed
by $3l million assets. It’s good
conduct to write for brochure.
Funds guaranteed for withdrawal
up to $lO,OOO per investor.
The progressive building society
ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward —General Manager
HEIAti OFFICE: 36/38 Ormonde Parade,
Hurstville. Ph 57 0201. CITY OFFICE: 82
Elizabeth Street. Phone 28 2801. MIRANDA
OFFICE: 551 The Kingsway. Phone
524 6466. PARRAMATTA OFFICE: 167
Macquarie Street. Phone 635 4574.
CHATSWOOD OFFICE: 39 Spring Street.
Phone 41 3570. BONDI JUNCTION OFFICE:
450 Oxford Street. Phone 38 3196.
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office
Please send free, comprehensive liter-
ature to:
NAME
ADDRESS
BY 483
ON THE
MARGIN
I called for
madder music and
for stiffer gin
BY ROSS CAMPBELL
THIS IS THE golden age of wine-
writing. Distinguished stylists deploy
a rich vocabulary for describing vari-
ous vintages—fat wines and thin wines,
dumb wines and eloquent wines, wines
with big noses and wines with tiny
retrousse noses. There is one point,
however, on which I feel impelled
to carp at these learned connoisseurs.
They avoid any mention of the fact
that wine is intoxicating.
This curious reticence is a modern
development. Writers on wine in
earlier times did not scruple to reveal
that it made them tight. They took
for granted that this was the chief
reason for drinking the stuff. The
devotees of Bacchus in antiquity never
bothered to categorise wines as
medium-bodied but a little lacking
in balance, or aromatic with a ten-
dency to bagginess. They just got as
full as googs—the female ones, if we
are to believe the authorities, running
wild at night in an unseemly fashion.
Present-day wine experts, far from
showing any Dionysian enthusiasm, are
reluctant to admit that they drink
wine at all. They claim only to taste
it. From time to time I have been
invited to functions called “wine-
tastings,” but I have never accepted.
The practice of wine-tasting, or potus
interruptus, is perverse and unhealthy.
If it becomes a habit it can have bad
psychological effects, and may render
a person incapable of normal drink-
ing.
I would have more respect for wine-
writers if they would confess to get-
ting occasionally plastered like any-
body else. Typical of their soberer-
than-thou pose was a piece by one in
a Sydney new >papi r, icpoiiing on a
large Christmas party he had given.
He said: “The ’59 Cabernet had a
full, rich nose and had benefited
from bottle age. Only the finish lacked
somewhat, falling away slightly.” Not
a word of its effect on himself and
his guests, although toward the end
of the party (I am informed) they
were falling away right and left.
While innumerable books and
articles are produced in praise of wine,
hardly anything is written about beef
or distilled spirits. It is surprising,
because these beverages have a great
many loyal adherents. One can only
infer that beer and spirits drinkers
show less literary aptitude than the
vinous crowd. At the same time, I
believe they are more free from
hypocrisy. The man who opens a
bottle of McCallum’s ’62 or Tooth’s
KB ’67 gets enjoyment from the smell
and taste of it, but does not pretend
that is the main purpose of what he
is doing.
It is time somebody spoke up in
appreciation of these unregarded
drinks. So I have made a few notes on
my own recent experiences.
During a visit to Melbourne, I met
three old newspaper friends at Young
and Jackson’s. They recommended
that I try some Foster’s Lager, of
which the hotel had acquired a stock.
I found it a deceptively urbane beer
with an attractive pale color and
emphatic Victorian character.
A few glasses of it made me distinctly
cheerful, and I recited limericks with
some success. At my request, the bar-
maid turned up the lights around the
painting of Chloe. With my friends I
passed an enjoyable two hours, except
for an altercation with a stranger who
said I had sat on his hat.
On the way home to my sister’s
place, I fell asleep in the train and
was carried on to an outer suburb called
McLeod. This did not diminish my re-
spect for Foster’s Lager, which com-
bines a suave persona with underlying
aggressiveness.
At a Christmas party in North Syd-
ney, my host invited me to sample a
bottle of Gilbey’s gin which he had
laid down during the previous week.
I was interested by its voluptuous yet
faintly aquiline nose. After three glasses
of it, with tonic water, I felt increased
confidence. Had an argument about
foreign films with a solicitor, who
accused me of being superficial.
After five glasses I gave my host
the opinion: “This is a full-bodied, de-
licious gin.” Went up to a Mrs. Wilson
and said: “Has anyone told you that
you are full-bodied and delicious?” She
moved away. After seven glasses, sang
“O Sole Mio.” Half-hour later was
driven home by wife. Have no hesita-
tion in defining Gilbey’s as a robust
spirit of essential integrity.
I would like to see wine experts dis-
play more of this sort of realism in
their prose. Why not say frankly:
“Another session with the big Hunter
reds last night. This morning I have a
rich, floral nose.”


if you’re
looking tor
a better
Fino sherry
you may
never find it
2
p"""
PRODUdD c bottlkd bt
angove's PT-V. ltd.
**NMAHK SOUTH AUSTRALIA
• sir imiie n..ozs. •
but all that searching
will make you thirsty
so take along a bottle of
ANGOYES
FINO DRV
Distributed throughout Australia by Dalgety
Trading Co. Pty. Ltd. In Sydney also John
Mackenzie d Co. Pty. Ltd., In Melbourne
also Van Cooth & Co. Pty. Ltd.
The connoisseurs choice
MARKO VERMOUTH
OUT AND
ABOUT
Telling Canada all
about the Great
Australian Apathy
By DAPHNE GUINNESS
“I SURE haven’t come all this way
to take fashion shots,” says Miss Doris
Anderson, editor of Canada’s biggest-
selling over - the - million - circulation
women’s glossy “Chatelaine,” “so they’d
better pull their socks up.” She’s sitting
in the dim-lit Wentworth Ayers Rock
Grill, eating oysters with determina-
tion. And somewhere out in the hot
afternoon, it’s one of those Sundays
when Sydney is dead from the gutter
up, somewhere out there is her art
director, her photographer, and her
fashion editor looking for backgrounds.
God Almighty! They should be out
there photographing the beach life, the
girls, the men, those glorious, muscular,
sexy men, about whom Australian
women say, well, they might look all
right to you, Miss Anderson, coming
all that way from Canada, but we can
tell you they are rotten lovers and
ab-so-lute-ly lousy in bed.
Miss Anderson is producing an entire
edition of “Chatelaine” on Australia,
due for publication hext May. For the
past three years it’s been crammed
with Canadian stuff till she was bored
to sobs. The centenary of the Federa-
tion, Expo, and all that. Then there’s
so much information about the U.S.
and Britain, and a big love affair going
on between Quebec and France, so
there’s lots about France; but about
Australia there is just one great big
blank. What with our mining and
minerals, immigration growth, and this
and that, she decided six months ago
to come here. Well, actually, if Qantas
hadn’t coughed up the first-class fares
the honor might have gone to another
country.
So here she is, attacking a lobster
salad with gusto and saying, heck, the
going’s not too smooth, though thank
God what happened in Russia hasn’t
happened here. There her photographer
fell in love with the model and they’d
both turn up late next day with black
smudges under their eyes, you know,
the model looking like hell. It was too
bad. This time the guy was found
wandering Sydney’s back streets the
other night and she kidnapped him
right back into her taxi.
Miss Anderson is standing absolutely
no nonsense. The story she wants is
the truth about life in Australia, and
she’s got ten days in which to dig it
out. Five, to be more accurate, with
everyone wasting time over fashion
d’you know, the whole shebang came
back twittering about a Bali temple
they’d found in some botanical gar-
dens or other; oh boy, she’s gonna put
her boot in; and in those remaining
days she’s lined up seven or eight
women to interview. Starting with a
typical housewife: a ginger-haired
woman married to a marvellously mus-
cular ginger-haired man whose union
is blessed with three ginger-haired
children. Now, the husband was some-
thing. Loved being interviewed, and
talked about his club life, his beach
life, and his working life, he had a
ball. But his wife, poor thing, her sole
relaxation was cutting lunches for a
club. Also an artist, a shopgirl, a work-
ing mother, a university student, a
New Australian, a TV personality.
After lunch, and upstairs in her room.
Miss Anderson receives a phone call
from the three enfants terrible. Great,
she says. Now everyone’s friends .
Next day, in purple linen and white
beads, hair newly coiffured, Miss
Anderson is looking and feeling a dif-
ferent person. She is about to see
Charlie Perkins on the Aboriginal
question; in Canada everyone’s beastly
to the Indians. D’you mean to say
Charlie’s actually got a degree? No
one told her that. That’s great. All
they said was see Charlie Perkins. Is
he full-blooded Aborigine? Gee. One
way and another Miss Anderson needs
to feel a different person, because,
frankly, the whole project is taking
rather longer than she expected. Well,
to start with, no one ever phones back.
In Canada people say yes or buzz you
off straight away. In Australia the only
person to buzz Miss Anderson off is
swimmer Linda McGill. Too bad.
There are lots of other sporting girls.
There is not another Alice Springs,
however, which has fallen through, the
planes are all booked, but the Wool
Board has laid on a sheep station for
Miss Anderson to see a bit of gracious
living in the outback. She has been
through an exhausting experience at
Freshwater: everyone’s so helpful, but
they do go on rather. She wants' to
find, but cannot, a pub where no
women are allowed. All she gets are
pubs with lavatory walls and lounges
for ladies, exactly like Canada. Oh,
yes, says the waitress in the coffee bar,
it’s very much like Canada here, and
Miss Anderson’s face kinda tightens.
Look, she says, is it possible to find
some Government man who can give
detailed facts about women’s rights
here? Up till now, no one seems to
know what she’s talking about.
Actually, she says, setting off for
Charlie Perkins, the situation here is a
bit like it was in Canada ten years ago
when she took over “Chatelaine” with
circulation a low 500,000. Sort of
apathetic.
Anyway, Miss Anderson and her party
intend passing out in Fiji en route for
home. To kinda readjust.


We’re not that much
all right, John
COMMENT
BY
“OBSERVER”
WHAT DID Senator John Gorton
mean when he said in his Australia
Day message that national develop-
ment must be Australia’s first priority?
Perhaps, in the manner of some Aus-
tralia Day messages of the past, he
meant nothing at all. Or did he
mean merely that Australia, like any
other nation, must look to its pros-
perity and economic growth? If that
was all he meant, it would have been
more convincing if he had given us
some idea of how he intended to
achieve this purpose more effectively.
Far too much talk about Australia’s
“national development” is mere
parochial back-slapping. It is true that
Australia spends a larger than usual
amount of income on investment: but,
overall, we have shown a smaller than
usual amount of economic growth. This
would suggest that some of our invest-
ment might be going into the wrong
places. It is also true that we have
stumbled, with good luck, on to the
exploitation of mineral resources. But
any fool can do that—all you need is
mineral resources.
What is going to matter to us even
more in the future is the level of
advancement we reach as a modern
technological society. How are we go-
ing in this kind of “development”?
The success of an industrial society of
the future will be related to its train-
ing of technologists and technicians.
Australia is moving into the future
with the worst possible start because
we have the least proportion of trained
technologists and technicians of any
modern industrial country in the world.
The worst possible interpretation of
the Prime Minister’s statement is that
it represents a return to the thinking
of the 1950 s when we used to excuse
our poor performance in economic aid,
our sluggish diplomatic role, and our
tiny defence expenditure (proportion-
ately the lowest among the world’s
prosperous countries) by suggesting that
somehow, by becoming prosperous,
Australia was helping the world. By
this argument we elevated I’m-all-right-
Jackism into a high moral principle.
However, there were other parts of the
Prime Minister’s statement that seemed
to suggest clearly enough that he knew
it was 1968 and not 1958.
Why, then, his emphasis on the
priority of national development?
What’s he worried about? What future
marginal decision will necessarily make
national development a prior choice?
The most reasonable explanation may
be that Senator Gorton is thinking
aloud. There are challenges. Malaysia
is now looking to Australia. So is Singa-
pore. They are allies of ours and they
have every right to know what our
plans are. What’s more, in what might
be considered his Australia Day mes-
sage, the British Defence Minister, Mr.
Healey, has said: “Let us face this fact
Australia is a very much richer
country that we are and is spending a
very much smaller amount on defence
than we are even in its own area.”
Senator Gorton is probably wise to be
cautious. But he should learn how to
keep his caution to himself. He may
choose to leave his decision-making
until Australia gets around the confer-
ence table with Malaysia, Singapore,
Britain, and New Zealand; but why not
be more warmhearted in his speeches?
Perhaps the most depressing thing
Senator Gorton has said occurred in
the same BBC program as the one that
recorded Mr. Healey’s challenge to Aus-
tralia. This was the statement that Aus-
tralia hasn’t got the capacity to be a
power in Asia. What is that supposed
to mean? If by “a power,” Senator
Gorton means “a great power,” it
hardly needs stating. But if by “a
power” he simply means “a power,” it
is senseless. Luxemburg is a power in
Europe, a little power, but a power
nevertheless, a State with a role, if a
limited one. To say that Australia is not
a g reat power is not the same as say-
ing that Australia is not a power in
South-East Asia. Singapore is a power.
Malaysia is a power. Surely Australia,
so much richer and stronger than they
are, is also a power. In its own region,
because of its economic strength, it is
f ar f lo ™ being the smallest of powers,
Since Australia has GNP as big as
ldo Ps s l 1 a ;’ Singapore, Malaysia, and
tde Philippines combined, it cannot
ci y a t^at smad - We should lecogmse
a f t^e P owers in this area, Indo-
nesia is by far the biggest in popula-
P on and Austialia is by far the biggest
wea lth.
Heaven help Australia’s alliance with
America if we don’t play a role in
South-East Asia commensurate with our
economic strength. When the Vietnam
War is over, if the Americans are going
to help anyone at all in this area they
are going to help only those who dis-
play a strong sense of initiative, who
show they can do something off their
own bat. But, apart from this particular
strategic consideration, Heaven help
Australia, anyway, if it is not prepared
to play a role in its own region. What
a grubby provincial little outfit we
would become if we pretended we were
too small to act with the same sense of
initiative as is shown, for example, by
Singapore, a nation that is smaller than
Sydney.
Loud squeals from
the tariff lobby
COMMENT
BY
PETER
SAMUEL
THE ASSOCIATED CHAMBERS of
Manufactures is one of Canberra’s
most energetic lobby groups, certainly
if the volume and stridency of public
statements are taken as a measure of
lobbying energy. Its latest demand of
the Government is that it should instruct
the Tariff Board to abandon its compre-
hensive review of the tariff and in par-
ticular its plans to publish a classifica-
tion of protected industries.
The Board had announced its inten-
tion to do this in its 1967 annual report.
published last September, and said it
would publish the classification in the
1968 annual report. This would put
industries into three categories high,
,• , i .• t. •„
medium, and low protection. it is
, ’ r , • , ,i
intended to put some rationale into the
listing of tariff inquiries and to get
away from the piesent haphazaid pto-
gression served up by the department,
“to relate the operation of the tariff
more fully and consistently to the Gov-
ernment’s economic objectives.” The
Board in its 1967 report saw its role as
“encouraging the development of and
flow of new investment into the more
rather than the less economic
activities within the protected sector.”
The “high /protection” category in-
dustries would receive the highest
priority for board inquiry. The Board
would not assume that high protective
needs necessarily proved the industry
uneconomic, but unless it demonstrated
compensating external benefits or could
show it had good prospects of operating
within lower levels of. protection quickly,
Board would aim in its tariff
recommendations to discourage expan-
sion. The most worthwhile uses of
economic resources are generally those
which also involve low-tariff costs,” it
P°H?, ° ut - . __ .
Ihe Chamber of Manufactured is
... r . , - . , ,
a lobby group for industry-in-trouble,
for a|l ' th | of manufac f uring firm ’
wh!ch have most trouble stand f ng on
their own feet, and, therefore, need pro-
tection. And protection means Canberra
lobbying and advocacy,
A week has passed and there is no
indication that the Government will
oblige ACMA. For one thing ACMA,
as often before, has completely mis-
represented the implications of the


52
ISSUES
FOR THE
PRICE OF
42
Under a special concession offer still current you
can now buy The Bulletin for 20c a copy instead
of 25c. With this special offer Australian readers
can take out a 12-month subscription to The
Bulletin for $10.40. This represents a saving of
$2.60 on a years issues. This offer is available
to Australian readers only. The best way not to
miss out on Australia is through a Bulletin sub-
scription.
MAIL THIS COUPON NOW
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me the next 52 issues of the Bulletin. I enclose a cheque for $10.40.
NAME
(BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
(BLOCK 'LETTERS)
□ Renewal Q New subscription. Tick as appropriate.
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTION DEPT., BOX 4088, G.P.0., SYDNEY 2001.
Board’s review. Extravagantly it has
claimed there will be an effect on
“business confidence and development.”
True, firms currently enjoying ex-
tremely high levels of protection, and
lacking confidence in their ability to
justify them, will have to start to worry
(about the commercial viability of their
present line of production. But, off-
setting these will be the many firms
who will see, in the classification,
promise of a general containment of
costs and for themselves the likelihood
of greater protection. They will feel
more assurance in the profitability of
expansion. ACMA only paints the
darker colors in the picture.
The Government would have to
summon up a great deal of audacity
to repudiate its own advisory authority
at this late stage. If it were to have
done this, the obvious time was when
the annual report was published and
tabled in Parliament last year. By
acceding to the proposal then, the
Government signified tacitly its
approval, and it would look rather
ridiculous to come out now after
an ACMA call and reverse its
stance. Its critics would have a field
day capitulation to a noisy, narrow
lobby group; repudiation of a carefully
argued course of action already well
under way; interference in the internal
inquiries of a supposedly independent
advisory body; an attempt by the
ambitious Department of Trade to tame
the Board to get the advice it finds con-
venient to receive. The Government
would get the lot thrown at it by farm-
ing and commercial groups alarmed by
departmental and Country Party
pressures for constantly higher tariffs,
by the opposition in Parliament and
backbenchers of the Liberal and
Country Parties, and by a host of inde-
pendent people who have long felt the
more discriminating and moderate
approach to protection now proposed
by the Tariff Board is necessary for
healthy and rapid economic develop-
. ment.
ACMA’s pressure may be less of a
hope about influencing the Government
as an indirect protest at an apparent
moderation of the Government’s tariff
line. This has been reflected by its
recent acceptance of two major Tariff
Board reports. Both held the line on
tariffs and indeed made some reduc-
tions. The toughest was the report on a
large slab of the textile industry, but
the report on tape-recorders, record-
players, and gramophone records was
also depressing for high protectionists.
In a number of cases both reports
pulled no punches in saying that the
protection being recommended was not
justified, and that it would be with-
drawn unless the firms concerned
raised their efficiency within three years
and were able to make do with a mod-
erate tariff.
ACMA must be very angry with the
Government for accepting these out-
spoken reports.


AUSTRALIA
The Tunku wants to make
up a fivesome
from HARVEY STOCKWIN in Singapore
SENATOR GORTON CAUGHT top
headlines in the “Malay Mail” with
his emphasis that “Australia can’t fill
the gap” after the British withdrawal
from Malaysia and Singapore. It is
accepted in Kuala Lumpur that in
physical terms this might be true. But
what has disappointed Australia’s
friends in Malaysia has been the lack
of a warm - hearted spontaneous
response from Senator Gorton and
therefore from Australia to a recog-
nition of Malaysia’s difficulties.
The fear that Australia and New
Zealand were dragging their feet began
in June last year when Britain pro-
posed a 1975-ish date for its with-
drawal. It was then that Malaysian
Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman
suggested a five-power conference be-
tween Malaysia, Singapore, Australia,
New Zealand, and Britain. This propo-
sal was met by a deafening silence from
Australia.
But the Malaysians still want a
mutual defence treaty with Australia,
New Zealand, and Singapore. They
realise that Australia is concerned about
reactions with Indonesia. For this reason
they would leave membership of the
mutual defence treaty open-ended, so
that it could be later enlarged to take
in other ASEAN nations, including
Indonesia. Malaysia has been doing
considerable diplomatic work to re-
assure the Indonesians that any defence
arrangements entered into with Aus-
tralia and New Zealand are not directed
at them. They now claim privately that
there is now no problem with the Indo-
nesians.
The political leaders of Australia,
New Zealand, Malaysia, and Singapore
all made their way separately to Lon-
don last year, after the Tunku’s appeal,
but this seemed to the Tunku not only
untidy but advantageous to British
Prime Minister Wilson.
Possibly it also occurred to the
shrewd Tunku, his sensitive political
antennae having locked on to the fact
that, purpose and decisiveness had been
replaced in Britain by drift and self-
doubt, that such a conference would
shore up the sandbank before it was
further eroded.
Whatever the calculation, there is
no gainsaying that Anzac-Singapore-
Malaysia unity having been gener-
ally promoted by Sukarno’s confronta-
tion was not equal to the situation.
The Malaysians were and are under-
standably annoyed that their concept
got such a non-response from Australia
and New Zealand.
After all, it is argued, had Australia
and New Zealand quickly come to the
party, how could the British refuse?
Evidently Canberra and Wellington
wanted the groundwork first, then
official talks, then . . . The Malaysians
wanted a tour de horizon, a musha-
warah. The Malaysian irritation is the
greater with Australia and New
Zealand, because Singapore, it is now
revealed, while welcoming the confer-
ence, asked to be kept informed of
Anzac views. So, as recent pronounce-
ments have testified, there was Malay-
sian irritation with Singapore’s soft-
pedalling, too. The conference never
got off the ground.
Now the Tunku is writing to the
countries concerned proposing a con-
ference around April or May in Kuala
Lumpur. After a minor setback, Singa-
pore is now well behind the proposal,
too. v
The way it is seen in Malaysia and
Singapore is that they are not colonies
requiring the retention of an umbilical
cord but allies expecting consultations.
The British are departing because of
pressure from backbench Labor dis-
sidents and Europe-firsters, not under
nationalist pressure from the newly
independent.
“We shan’t be shooting our way out
here,” is the British Army reaction.
Yet, despite the fact that on the whole
a Western alliance has proven itself
here, despite the fact that Britain has
abruptly devalued such an alliance, the
devalution continues further. Yet there
is even discussion in Kuala Lumpur
now about the possibility of linking
Malaysia and Singapore with Austra-
lia, New Zealand, and America
through an extended ANZUS Pact.
To the Tunku’s latest proposal, Can-
berra, Wellington, and London have
publicly responded with nothing. What
seems to be their cold-heartedness seems
all the colder when it is recognised
that the Tunku’s initiatives are in part
a warm-hearted suggestion.
Prolonged reticence, quite apart from
further embarrassing the Tunku, will
only harden dawning suspicions that
Australia and New Zealand are going
to sit tight behind their American
shield, thank you very much. As is
their way, the Malaysians suggest talks
with those with whom they assume
they have basic understanding and
agreement. Since there is no lack of
subjects to discuss, is anything to be
gained in making the Malaysians go
on wondering?
All this well illustrates gulfs that
The Prime Minister’s Australia Day picture ... the Gortons move into the world
of Zara Holt


have to be bridged. For the Malaysians,
style is often substance, intent is all
important. For Australians, substance
is sought with or without style, agreeing
on what is to be discussed is more im-
portant than agreeing to discuss. In
the present context, while confrontation
may appear like an episode from a
bygone era, the ending of it, the man-
ner of that ending, is a perhaps very
relevant example. The Tunku would
like an old era ended and a new situa-
tion explored in a similar manner.
Not that there aren’t considerable
gulfs in style and substance between
Malaysia and Singapore. But at least
on this occasion they have been tem-
porarily bridged by a prefabricated
superstructure of cordiality a sur-
prising, notable, and unexpected
achievement. It was after all only a
few years ago at the height of con-
frontation that very strong Anglo-
Anzac pressure had to be brought to
bear to stop Malaysia sending her gun-
boats down to prevent Singapore
unilaterally recommencing barter trade
with Indonesian traders. Since then de-
fence disunity has been but one cause
and one effect of the drift toward com-
plete Malaysia-Singapore separation.
The recent withdrawal of Malaysian
troops from Singapore has removed
one possible bone of contention, but,
given the Anglo-Malaysian Defence
Treaty now being in a state of sus-
pended animation, the Malaysian re-
tention of their small naval base in
Singapore could be another.
The current crisis has at least pro-
duced the intent to co-operate. Goh
Keng Swee’s trip to Kuala Lumpur
immediately upon returning from
London was productive. After he
talked with both the Tunku and Tun
Razak a Malaysian Foreign Ministry
statement was issued expressing agree-
ment between the Malaysian Prime
Minister and the Singaporean Finance
Minister that “the defence of Malaysia
and Singapore is inseparable and
(they) agreed to hold further talks to
examine the implications of the latest
British plans, and to work out measures
for the future.” Following upon which
Dr. Goh and Tun Razak repaired to
the golf course, whereon the substance
and intent to co-operate is frequently
'developed in this part of the world.
Are Wilson, Gorton, and Holyoake
interested in a fivesome?
Before going to Kuala Lumpur, Dr.
Goh had expressed a scepticism
shared by some in Canberra about
Britain’s participation in a Five Power
conference, presuming a loss of interest
accompanying the departing commit-
ment. He has reiterated this, and
both Lee Kuan Yew and the Tunku
have expressed their hopes for such
interest.
Speaking in Parliament, Lee antici-
pated .that “there will probably be a
number of conferences of Governments
with an interest in the security of the
Singapore-Malaysia area. The Singapore
Government is willing to attend any
conference which will enhance peace
and security in the area.”
The Tunku has emphatically insisted
that Britain “cannot run away from her
obligation to Malaysia after the pull-
out in 1971,” thus indicating that he
fully intends to hoist Wilson and
Brown with their own petards of con-
tinuing interest and continuing concern
for South-East Asian security. While
the Tunku has not specifically said he
hopes for a Prime Ministers’ conference,
the advantages of such are obvious.
Apart from the fact that the British
are by implication tearing up the
ANZAM agreement as well as watering
down the Anglo-Malaysian Defence
Treaty and SEATO; leaving aside the
potentially contentious irritation of a
hurried three-year withdrawal; not to
mention the vexatious question of what
Britain considers “significant aid” in the
new context it has created; overlooking
all possible future permutations, there
are the implications and implementation
of Britain’s promised joint Air Defence
System (note, “joint”) still to be
worked out.
All in all, it should be “a confer-
ence.” Apart from getting a. move on
themselves, maybe Canberra and Wel-
lington would be well-advised to
remind Wilson as he flits from Moscow
to Washington still chasing Vietnamese
rainbows, that he can do more 'or
South-East Asian peace by exercising
the responsibilities he still has.
The Prime Minister
Under the statistical spell?
A FEW YEARS AGO Australian poli-
ticians used regularly to demonstrate
their down-to-earthness by pronounc-
ing the aphorism that “there are lies,
damned lies and statistics.” And they
thereby were able to treat with scepti-
cism deserved and undeserved
statistical comparisons produced in
support or attack of particular govern-
ment policies. But lately the politicians
who run this country seem to have
let simple statistics take a hypnotic
hold on their minds. Prime Minister
Gorton, in his few weeks in office,
has shown that he is as firmly under
the statistical spell as any of his col-
leagues.
Though he has denied that he sub-
scribes to the thesis that defence spend-
ing should be limited to the present five
percent of GNP, he has implicity stated
his adherence to the theory. “We have
the capacity (to replace British troops
in Malaysia) but only if we sacrifice
other needs of Australia . . . there is
a limit to the amount of taxation that
can be put on Australians in order
to meet these needs (of development,
welfare, education, and health) . . .”
He also rejects the idea that there is
any scope for a major increase in eco-
nomic assistance in the same terms.
A number of influences have been
at work in developing these ideas, but
one institution stands out for the energy
and skill with which it has propagated
them the Commonwealth Treasury.
Back in November, 1964, when Aus-
tralian defence spending was at an
extremely low level by any standards
(and we could mobilise a grand army
of two and a half battalions) the
Department, in a paper on economic
growth, said: “Among the many choices
which might be made at the expense
of economic growth, one in particular
may be worth noting, namely spend-
ing on defence. The diversion of out-
put on defence results both in some
slowing down in the rate of growth
of output, and no doubt, in living
standards lower than they might other-
wise have been. Not only is private
consumption likely to be affected but
also the level of fixed investment.
Probably with adverse effects on the
rate of growth.”
And in the last Budget speech, the
Treasurer said that the defence build-up
of the past two years could not continue
“without deep impairment of the
economy.” Defence was going to con-
sume five percent of GNP. Reflecting
an outdated orientation, Mr. McMahon
compared this, not with the amounts
other countries in our region are spend-
ing on defence, but with the statistical
proportions of European countries
as if this were a relevant standard.
Similarly the level of our international
aid was said to be as high as all other
Atlantic countries except France.
The Treasury has often stressed the
comparative smallness of the propor-
tion of national resources available for
personal consumption expenditure,
thereby arguing that there is no scope
for squeezing consumer spending to pro-
vide resources for Australia’s defence
and foreign policies.
Australia, Mr. Holt used to say,
brandishing his Treasury statistics,
devotes 27 percent of its resources to
investment a higher proportion than
any country outside Japan. The reasons
for that are twofold: in the first place,
with an immigrant intake almost as
great as the natural increase in the
population, a large proportion of Aus-
tralian investment goes into housing,
local roads, sewers, water supply, and
other items of urban paraphernalia
rather than into more directly produc-
tive channels like factories, machinery,
and office equipment. Secondly, there
is a statistical illusion in the apparently
large ploughback of Australian produc-
tion. Economist Brian Haig, in a new
book on Australian production and
prices, compiles evidence to show that


Treasury Secretary Richard Randall
(left) and Reserve Bank Governor
J. G. Phillips
the price of capital goods is extremely
high in Australia compared with other
countries, so the raw statistics overstate
the real extent of saving and investment.
An above-normal investment rate is
simply something Australia has to pay
for its immigration program, and for
its distance from the countries which
supply our investment goods. There is
no reason, if development is to get a
higher priority, why the investment rate
should not be encouraged to rise further.
Certainly the statistical example of
West European countries is no guide
to what Australia needs to do.
Similarly, West European statistical
examples are no guide to Australia’s
defence and aid capacities. Our own
experience is the most sensible guide.
The defence build-up of the past three
years is taking expenditure from $560
million in 1965 to $lO6O million this
year, an annual increase of $l7O million.
During this time national production—
despite a worse drought than any for a
generation—has risen by an average of
$l6OO million a year. So about 12 per-
cent of the increase in economic
capacity in the past three years has been
absorbed by defence, leaving plenty of
resources for other areas. Personal con-
sumer spending has risen by $9OO mil-
lion each year, expenditure on cigarettes
and alcohol alone by $llO million a
year.
Development has not suffered. Hous-
ing construction is at record levels,
close to a billion dollars a year going
into new houses; business spending on
equipment and buildings has risen from
$2500m. to s2Boom. —not a spectacular
amount, but there has been no shortage
of resources. Government capital spend-
ing outside defence has boomed over
the period of the military build-up,
rising from $ 1800 m; to $2200m. (Post
Office investment alone rose from
sl6om. to $240m.) Education is get-
ting sl7om. more than it was three
years ago, and health spending is sBom.
up.
Despite drought and restrictions on
capital inflow, the economy has demon-
strated convincingly that it can sustain
a major defence build-up, a high rate
of development and considerable in-
creases in personal consumption at the
same time. There is simply no basis
for the Treasury claim that continua-
tion of the present expansion would
cause a “deep impairment” of our
capacity for growth.
The resources are there and they will
increase year by year with the growth
of the workforce (170,000 each year)
and increased productivity. And there
are plenty of opportunities for raising
the rate of productivity further. A
government really dedicated to develop-
ment would energetically follow a wide
program of economic reforms. Recogni-
tion of foreign trade and professional
qualifications would bring a rapid in-
crease in the inflow of quality immi-
grants; adult training and retraining
programs in place of the medieval
apprenticeship system would enable the
economy to get another supply of new
skills appropriate to modern techno-
logy. Tariff policy would, as the Gov-
ernment’s advisory board suggests, be
framed to let resources flow into lines
of low-cost efficient production; and
rural policy to see that subsidies were
designed to help farmers in declining
industries to shift rather than simply be
propped up.
Defence and aid need not conflict
with national development as the
Prime Minister seems to imply they
must. A “Buy-Australian” policy for
all but the smallest purchases of the
most specialised defence equipment
would bring technological benefits.
Communications is one industry which
has already benefited commercially by
military purchases. The British buy
our Army communications sets. Army
research and development on light-
weight personal equipment has pro-
duced what is regarded as the best col-
lection of infantryman’s accessories
available, with an obvious export poten-
tial. With the Air Force and Navy rela-
tively well-equipped now, the next de-
fence program is bound to see resources
shifted to the Army, where the capacity
for inducing internal economic benefits
is most marked.
Economic aid, too, can work to
mutual benefit. Intensified research on
adapting cattle and finding new grasses
for tropical country would be of great
benefit to both Australia and her neigh-
bors. Expanded trade opportunities for
Singapore would provide us with
cheaper imports, and the provision of
tied-loan aid to Indonesia and the
Philippines would increase Australian
manufacturing exports.
The limiting factor is not resources
but, it seems, imagination.
Canberra
Too much water
IN HIS SO VERY nearly successful
1961 election campaign Mr. Arthur
Calwell made great play on the money
being “wasted” on so-called ornamental
lakes in Canberra. The profligate ex-
penditure of national money on Can-
berra “trivialities” while the mass of
Australians suffered all manner of basic
inconveniences (lack of sewerage, for
example) became a major theme for a
number of newspaper editorialists and
for a host of keen writers of letters-to-
the-editor. Despite this, the Canberra
lakes were completed at a cost of almost
ssm, and today they are admired by
the 500,000 Australians who visit the
national capital each year as tourists.
For all practical political purposes
Mr. Calwell and the Canberra lakes are
finished and gone. But a latter-day Cal-
well would find great scope for creating
indignation in the State capitals by
seizing on another piece of apparent
Canberra extravagance.
The lakes scheme is there in the
middle of Canberra for all to see
approximately ssm worth of concrete
dam, lake retaining walls, lawns and
trees. It was completed in 1963, and
1968 sees the completion of another
Canberra dam, this one considerably
more expensive at s9m, though less con-
spicuous 37 miles away from the city,
up in the mountains to the south-west.
The “Corin Dam” as it is called, is a
major water-storage reservoir. It is in-
tended to increase fivefold the avail-
able water for the national capital.
The voracious appetite of Canberrans
for water was highlighted last week by
the news that the local authorities are
considering an approach to the Snowy
Mountains Authority to get some water
from one of its dams, the T'antangata
on the upper Murrumbidgee. Such an
approach is made necessary by the fact
that the s9m Corin Dam, while
finished, hasn’t had time to accumulate
any water.
The populace of most of Australia’s
capital cities, with industry, use between
80 and 100 gallons per person on the
average day of the year. Canberrans
use close to 150 gallons on average
with the level rising to 400 in the sum-
mer, when it is estimated that upwards
of 340 gallons per person is used for
Canberra’s gardens. So it can be said
that the massive investment in Corin
Dam and associated enlargement of
trunk mains with expanded pumping
works and 60-inch diameter steel pipe-
lines (altogether costing around sl2m)
are—like the Canberra lakes—an in-
vestment in the Canberra landscape.
One thing is certain, Canberrans do
not pay the cost of the water they
consume. They pay 13 cents for the
first 75,000 gallons they use and 20
cents for each additional 1000 gallons
(against 30 cents in Sydney or Mel-
bourne). The Department of the


Interior, which supplies the water, has
not recently worked out what it costs
but says that even on operating costs
it means a considerable loss. And, most
significantly, the Department incorpor-
ates no capital charge in its water rates,
despite the immense investment in
recent years.
A conservative interest charge on
capital invested would add another 30
cents per thousand gallons, suggesting
that a self-financing water authority for
Canberra would charge around 60 cents
a thousand gallons, more than three
times the present rates.
While Canberra’s inland climate
makes it far drier than coastal capitals,
soft English grasses are used in lawns,
which consequently need a daily
soaking. And whereas other inland
cities adapt their landscaping by using
deep-rooted, evaporation-resisting trees
and shrubs (especially natives), in Can-
berra, soft shallow-rooted West Euro-
pean-climate plants are widely used.
All this extravagance with scarce and
precious water may be coming to an
end. As the city grows, more locals
are wondering whether a quarter of the
total capital budget for Canberra should
be spent on mammoth water supply
schemes while there are gross in-
adequacies in street-lighting, increasing
traffic congestion and a very high acci-
dent rate, a lack of libraries, and over-
crowded schools. Canberra still relies on
Sydney for schoolteachers, and,
although business and commerce have
diversified the occupational structure,
absence of secondary industry makes
the city too much a public servant’s
town.
With Canberra growing by 10 per-
cent a year, and water consumption re-
maining at present levels, the just-
completed, huge Corin Dam wili be
inadequate within seven years. As soon
as 1971, work will have to start on
another slom project and raiding the
Snowy for water may become a regular
practice to make up Canberra short-
ages.
The alternatives are to charge an
economic price to Canberra consumers,
using commercial means to keep con-
sumption down to sensible levels, plus
a massive effort to adapt the Canberra
townscape to the environment by
sowing native grasses and Californian
groundcovers, using gravels and pebbles
instead of English lawns, and planting
Australian shrubs and trees in place of
soft exotic European varieties, bred for
a cooler, wetter climate.
It would be surprising if last week’s
approach by Canberra authorities to the
Snowy Authority for its sacred waters
does not arouse demands in N.S.W. and
Victoria that Canberra make this adap-
tation.
The States
Back to dual taxation?
SIR HENRY BOLTE’S new receipt
tax on most financial transactions over
$lO, and wages over $2O, comes into
operation this week with a list of
unanswered questions longer than a
hillbilly’s braces.
Can he get away with it if challenged
before the High Court in terms of the
Uniform Taxation Agreement? There
is some dispute about this, but most
legal authorities now seem to think that
the new tax would survive a challenge.
Can the Commonwealth strike back
by cutting Victoria’s present taxation
reimbursement by the amount collected
in the new tax? Some authorities say
that it can, but although the Uniform
Taxation Agreement in 1942 would
seem to allow the Commonwealth that
power it has also been pointed out by
Victorian officials that the Common-
wealth appears to have robbed itself
of this power in the Grants Act of 1959.
Can Sir Henry finally force the Com-
monwealth reluctantly to co-operate in
collecting the tax from Commonwealth
employees? The Prime Minister and the
Treasurer have indicated their hostility
to the tax in general, and its application
to their employees in particular, but
If the Victorian Government pursues
Commonwealth workers with its State
legislation the burden of payment
through stamps or annual returns will
fall on individuals who will begin col-
lectively to urge the Commonwealth to
take over the burden. It has also been
suggested that Commonwealth in-
transigence could prove embarrassing to
TAA, whose passengers might have to
pay the tax individually, while Ansett
co-operated with the State Government
and saved his passengers the trouble,
Will the tax be paid by employers
or employees? The Victorian Chamber
of Manufactures last week told its
members that they should deduct the
new stamp duty tax from wages. This
suggestion immediately drew bitter fire
from trade unions and industrial trouble
may follow when the tax is taken out
of wages. And some employer indicated
that the time taken to calculate the tax
and deduct it from each pay envelope
would be much more costly than simply
paying the tax themselves directly to
the Government on bulk wages,
Is interest on Commonwealth loans,
for example, taxable? Should small
businesses pay duty on each transaction
over $lO or on their bulk business, and
how? And so on. Some of them are
the kinds of questions which are raised
every time a Government thinks of a
new way to raise revenue. Others
involve constitutional and legal compli-
cations which can only be resolved in
practice.
For the Commonwealth, the danger
is that other States will watch the Vic-
torian experiment and then follow suit.
Australia would then be back to a
dual taxation system which those
responsible for planning national econo-
mic policy believe is dangerous for
financial stability.
Sir Henry Bolte has produced a diffi-
cult card for the new Prime Minister
to trump, but from the way he was
talking before the election of the new
Prime Minister the troubles of Senator
Gorton are not much of a bother to the
Victorian Premier. If the feeling is
mutual, as the signs seem to show,
there may be some evening-up of scores
at this year’s Premiers’ Conference.
Arbitration
Justice and peace
NO MATTER HOW hard the unions
argue or threaten, the employers can
always point to the statement of Mr.
Justice Gallagher in his metal trades
work value judgment in December: “I
wish to make it clear to the unions
and to employers themselves that so
far as this Commission is concerned
there is nothing in principle to prevent
an employer from using existing over-
award payments to offset the increase
whether in whole or in part.
“It will be open to an employer to
make an over-award payment if he so
wishes, and it is not to be expected
that by reason of the proposed variation
an employee’s take-home pay will be
reduced. But any over-award payment
made by an employer should be volun-
tary and should not be the result of
industrial pressure whether in the form
of strike action, threatened strike action,
bans, limitations, or the like.”
Yet, despite the clear instruction of
the Commission, strikes and stoppages
are occurring and are likely to become
more serious, and the unions are de-
manding that the figures formally
awarded by the Commission be loaded
on to existing over-award payments.
Part of the trouble is that some union
officials and many unionists do not
appear to understand the nature of the
Mr. Justice Gallagher ... voluntary


decision of the Commission and the
gains to be made by careful and long-
range preparation of further work-
value cases. They do not know where
to go from here, so the response is to
take as much as can be got now. An-
other difficulty is that the increases for
metal trades workers, ranging from
$10.50 to 10 cents, were announced in
such a way that most workers —before
they got down to the fine print, immedi-
ately thought they were automatically
to get the increases on top of their
present wages. Their officials were then
not anxious to play employers’ advo-
cate and tell them otherwise.
More important now is the feeling in
union circles that a combination of
strikes and threats may succeed in forc-
ing employers to grant the full increases
without reference to present over-award
payments. The unions have been en-
couraged by the split in the ranks of
employers: many smaller metal shops
and factories are paying the full in-
creases rather than risk industrial strife
and consequent loss of contracts for
work: Australian Consolidated Indus-
tries is a large firm which has also
agreed to union claims.
Most of the other employers are
united in their determination to stick
by the letter of the Arbitration Com-
mission’s decision. They have a good
chance of getting the Commission to
suspend the award if the stoppages con-
tinue and consequently they can hope
to have recalcitrant unions heavily fined
if they continue their disruptive action.
The maximum fine is $lOOO a day.
By the time the Arbitration Com-
mission has sorted out the present con-
frontation it may be convinced that its
next work-value decision should be
calculated to gain peace as well as jus-
tice, and that the presentation and
formulation of its judgments are not)
much less important than their content.
Otherwise each new work-value judg-
ment is likely to bring similar industrial
problems and the Government will need
a Big “E” of its own to calm the
troubled waters.
R and R
Operation stop-pot
“THIS IS GETTING to be a kinda
regular run for you,” the U.S. Army
captain remarked conversationally out-
side the Special Federal Court in Syd-
ney to a lawyer who had made another
appearance for an American service-
man charged with bringing marihuana
from Vietnam. Of the ten soldiers
arrested, eight have been convicted,
the other two going free when their
statements that they did not know
there was marihuana in their baggage
were believed.
Ten out of the 10,000 men who
have come to Australia since the 'Rest-
and-Recreation scheme got under way
last October is a small number, but the
unfavorable publicity the drug charges
have attracted is in inverse ratio to the
otherwise unobtrusive and successful
operation under which 160 Americans
shuttle into Sydney every morning to
forget the war for six days, and another
160, their leave over, are airlifted back
to Saigon.
Magistrate Mr. S. C. Rodgers, SM,
has emphasised that the servicemen
and the American authorities must be
made to realise how seriously the im-
portation of marihuana is regarded by
the Australian Government, and it is
the way of spreading this word at grass-
roots level among the U.S. troops that
is one of the problems being tackled
behind the scenes after Consultations
between American and Australian offi-
cials.
Because the drug offences are poli-
tically embarrassing to the Ameri-
cans because the last thing they want
is an image of pot-addicted soldiers
bringing illicit habits among Austra-
lians from whom not a single “Go
home Yank” has yet been heard, and
to the Australian Government because
jailing and fining troops of our fighting
ally aren’t pleasant things to have to
do —no one wants to say too much
officially. Questions are inclined to be
met jvith wary eyes, and guarded ton-
gues.
The truth is that the snags which
might have developed in an R-and-R
scheme of this size, and indeed among
any leave troops, among them drun-
kenness and brawling, have not hap-
pened, but one that was not so much
anticipated has. Now efforts are being
made to check the problem at the
source by tightening up procedures for
checking the R-and-R men out to
Australia.
All soldiers passing through the
departure barracks at Cam Ranh Bay
and Da Nang, are required to sign a
declaration that they are not in posses-
sion of narcotics, guns, and that other
Australian bugbear, pornographic mat-
erial. They are allowed to bring duty-
free into the country two cartons
four hundred cigarettes, and one
course might be to vary this concession
by making a duty-free issue of “un-
contaminated” cigarettes at this end,
and not allowing any others to be
brought in.
Meanwhile, the Customs men at Mas-
cot complete their own search-and-
destroy mission jwith every Pan-
American R-and-R plane that touches
down about 6.30 a.m. daily. Acting
Collector of Customs, Mr. R. Keogh,
told The Bulletin that the luggage of
all the servicemen was searched, and
on occasion there were personal
searches. “We don’t always do a 100
percent inspection—we make a decision
in individual cases on how much to
check an aircraft,” he said.
The Customs and other Common-
wealth Departments had had talks with
the Americans to “facilitate the clear-
ance of these R-and-R people,” but
he would not give details of the dis-
cussions, Mr. Keogh said.
But the Customs relied on its own
Boyd ... shuttle service
resources at the point of importation
to protect the revenue and prevent im-
portation of narcotics. “Of course, the
Americans are just as interested as we
are to prevent acquisition of drugs by
their troops and are taking their own
measures,” he added.
The R-and-R planes arrive before the
civilian traffic through Mascot starts
for the day, and with as many as 20
inspection channels open, the 160
arrivals are cleared in about an hour.
Still in their uniforms, the men are
taken on buses to the Chevron Hotel,
where they change their dollars for ours,
their uniforms for civilian clothes, and
fan out to the 25 R-and-R approved
hotels.
Apart from the finds which resulted
in court appearances, The Bulletin
learned that there have been some seiz-
ures of marihuana hidden in the planes,
probably abandoned at the last moment
by soldiers who had decided to play
it safe.
Major B. K. Boyd, a clean-cut Texan
of about 35, a career military man who
has seen service in Vietnam, is chief
of the R-and-R headquarters here, and
heads a staff of 18 in a suite on the
first floor of the Chevron.
He said possession of narcotics by
military personnel was an offence pun-
ishable with a maximum of five years’
hard labor and dishonorable discharge.
Whether this is the fate awaiting the
American who received the heaviest
punishment in a Sydney court is a
matter for the military authorities in
Saigon. They may throw the book at
him or decide he has paid for the
offence. This man, William Wrigley
Cutter, 24, is in Long Bay Jail for
the three months’ term imposed after
evidence that he intended to sell 200
cigarettes for $1 each to pay for his
leave. The going fines for the others,
who have either denied knowledge of
the seized narcotics or said they had
the drugs for their own use, has been
$75.




Is General Motors good for Australia?
By MICHAEL BAUME
IT IS NOT ONLY a different sort of
car; there are different kinds of people
making it. “New generation” applies
just as accurately to the revitalised
management of General Motors-
Holden’s as it does to the “new genera-
tion” HK-series Holden cars released
with so much free beer and bunkum
last weekend. If it flops it will mean not
only a failure for the car and its
designers, but also for the new manager
ment style brought to GMH by Max
Edward Wilson, the soft-spoken
Nebraskan managing director, who
looks like a younger edition of Dean
Rusk, who is less a Detroit hustler than
an international businessman, who has
spent 15 of his 21 years at GM outside
America, who believes in delegating as
much of his authority as possible, who
has given his top men a much freer
hand than they have ever had before,
and who, in his two years here, has
changed not only the basic concept of
the Holden (by introducing an infinite
variety of models instead of the old
basic-car idea) but also the manage-
ment attitude of the company itself.
Naturally, Wilson and his men are
desperately keen to make a success of
the HK; last weekend’s launching
showed that. The effort and cost that
went into the large-scale dramatic pre-
sentation of the car to the collection
of motoring writers and their wives who
had been flown to Fishermen’s Bend
from all over Australia gave some sort
of hint of the importance the company
places on getting a good Press for the
HK. These motoring writers, some of
them scarcely out of their teens,' some
of them “doing the motoring page on
the side” and not knowing a valve from
a piston, and a few of them real experts,
are to GMH what theatre critics are to
an actor. Bad notices can ruin the
show. And there was certainly all the
tension of a first night in Holden’s
huge styling auditorium as the presen-
tation of the HK began with contem-
porary music to “set the tone,” then a
slick film (“not too commercial, you
know; these are motoring writers, not
salesmen”). Next, to explain what the
latest version of Australia’s own car
was all about, came the top GMH men
who fathered it three out of five
were Americans. For, despite its at-
tempts to Australianise its image, GMH
is like every GM subsidiary overseas,
very much an American international
company. Its local power is real but
it is in the hands of a local American.
And that power is limited.
Until a couple of weeks ago, the
local maker of “Australia’s own car”
had not been told by its American
parent company what prices it would be
allowed to charge for the new range of
Holdens. Max Wilson had a fair idea;
he had recommended a price list to the
New York office of the General Motors
Overseas Corporation, and they usually
leave things like this the way the local
man wants them. Whether they did so
this time is a closely held secret. But the
fact remains that no matter how much
GMH tries to present itself as an Aus-
tralian company, the right of the final
decision rests with New York, even on
such matters as the price of its product.
And because of GMH’s very size, as
Australia’s second biggest manufactur-
ing company, with annual sales around
$350 million, with 22,000 employees of
its own (and many thousands of others
employed by its 4000 suppliers of equip-
ment), with exports around $2O mil-
lion a year, its decisions are of major
significance to the Australian economy.
Yet, on the face of it, there is less
“Holden” and more “General Motors”
these days than when that aggressively
Australian Englishman Sir Lawrence
Hartnett ran things here before and
during the war and did all the spade-
work in convincing a reluctant GM
that it should build an Australian car.
From this month there is no longer a
Holden on the board of directors, fol-
lowing the retirement of Sir James
Holden, who has held the title of resi-
dent director, South Australia. Sir John
Blitters is left as the only outsider on
an otherwise all-executive board, as the
“internationalisation” of what had been
a small-scale Australian company is
now nearing completion.
But does all this matter? Is the sort
of company that the profit-conscious,
tough-minded General Motors Corpor-
ation runs in Australia the best sort of
company for the job it has to do? Is
it best for Australia that GMH is a sort
of emasculated giant, a little afraid of
its own strength and wary of trying to
use it, pretending in the past (but not
so much these days) that despite its size
as Australia’s second biggest industrial
company it had no other role here but
to make motor-cars and profits?
True, under its present (and very im-
pressive) young managing director,
GMH has shown that it possesses some-
thing of a social conscience. And it is
now keen to do things that go beyond
its earlier narrow brief: for example,
it would like to help more in defence
work.
“We’ve done a lot of defence work.
We’ve offered our research facilities;
The Holden suits Australian conditions ...... and they’ve got pictures to prove it, like this one of recent outback trials
the authorities are well aware of these
if they ever decide they need them,”
Wilson says. “There are plenty ol
General Motors products that the Aus-
tralian defence forces could ask GMH
to make locally instead of buying from
America; for instance, the Sherman
tank is a GM product. But because Aus-
tralia is so buttoned-in on the U.S. de-
fence structure it just buys from
America.”
But, in general, GMH just minds its
own business; its top men do not buy
into public controversies, no matter
how important to the company they
may be (and if they do it is in private,
like the recent unpublicised attack by
Max Wilson on Australia’s overdepend-
ence on protection in a talk to local
automotive-parts makers); it avoids too
much direct contact with the Govern-
ment; it is desperately eager to keep its
nose clean. In short, it follows, with
modest amendments, the principles of
management and social behaviour set
out by the austere guiding genius of the
General Motors Corporation, Alfred P.
Sloan. Like all GM subsidiaries around
the world, it is here to make money and
to do so in the most efficient way
possible without disturbing the local
political or public attitudes to such a
degree that its right to make profits
would be restricted.
Even when GMH is really upset
about things it doesn’t go hammering
on doors in Canberra, and Wilson
doesn’t protest in the newspapers. Any
protesting, any approaches to the Gov-
ernment are done by the industry as a
whole, acting through the Chamber of
Automotive Industries. “We’re invited
to consult with the Government
frequently, but we never try to influ-
ence it; in fact, we go out of our way
not to influence it. Our relations with
the Opposition are as friendly as those
with the Government, says Wilson.
He denies strenuously that the
appointment of Don Hayward to the
company s public relations staff he is
now the director in charge of it) had
.... , . i.i , 'tj
any political overtones, although Hay-
, 1 , r , , 4 & ... V
ward had strong associations with the
Liberal Partv fnd had been nrivate
sectary Senate? sT C
Spooner and Senator Sir Alister
McMullin
rp, . ~ . . , j
lhis political reticence is matched
u numi • i u mu u
by GMHs social shyness. The boss
r n • . • i 7 (ii* n
* CI
j . ~ • i .
ness; I don t go around talk.ng about
anyth,ng else, says Wilson.
This avoidance of distraction from
the basic task of making money on
of making cars and the tightness of
GM control over its Australian opera-
tions means that GMH, unlike BHP,
has no feeling of national identity
prompting it to bear non-commercial
factors strongly in mind when forming
its pricing, dividend, and diversifica-
tion policies. It has no takeover ambi-
tions, no plans to move out of its
traditional role as a leader in land
transportation, no intention of sharing
in the massive developments of Aus-
tralia’s mineral resources except as
a potential supplier of transport.
Nevertheless, GMH is a much more
Australian-ish sort of company than it
seems. Max Wilson’s management style
nieans that every senior man feels he is
participating in the running of a real,
separate entity. And the GM concept
0 f decentralised operating responsibility,
with clearly defined line authority, but
with centralised policy control, gives
plenty of scope for local decision-
making even if these decisions have
t 0 fi e justified in detail to head office,
no doub , head offici ,
. r t-, . *,,...
is never far away, lhere is a strict limit
. . 1 f , ,•
on the amount of capital spending the
, , ~ ? A *
local mana g ln S director can do without
getting Neiv York’s approval; he must
kee P New , 7? r )f J fully “
regular and detailed reports on GMH s
activities; there are frequent visits by
~ 5 , A . „ .
GM big brass and he is in constant
5 . . ’ •
communication with J\ew York and
?-oit, where practically every policy
decision made by GMH (and a great
. operational decisions, too)
“re-thought-out” in the light of all
(4ich have to be supplied
G MH) with “please explains” com-
. 7 . f 1 > „ i„ • „„„
3 1 e , lor i > ) s
different from GMHs.
This re-thinking is not done m a
vacuum by people unawaie of the
special conditions in Australia, two
former managing directors of GMH,
Earl Daum and Harlow Gage, are in
New York as top men in the Overseas
Corporation, and there is a steady flow
of senior men between Detroit and Mel-
bourne. And four of Max Wilsons key
divisional chiefs, being Americans, will
be back in the U.S. one day.
Both Daum and Gage were more in
the old-style Sloan maximising-profits
tradition. But Wilson is a new-genera-
tion man; he seems far more conscious
of the political and social implications
of business decisions.
So there is no suggestion that GM
simply picks a good managing director,
sends him to Australia, and lets him
(and his local directors) do what he
thinks is the best job for the corpora-
tion. (In any event, all but two of the
13-man local board of directors are
employees, which may tend to limit
the degree of independent thought at
GMH board meetings even though
the number of Australian directors out-
weighs the Americans by eight to five.)
But this head-office control is not
as severe as it sounds; it is still really
up to the local man to insist on getting
his way in disputes with head office.
But his head is on the block if he is
wrong. And his freedom of action is
clearly circumscribed.
“There are clear policy guidelines
from Detroit that I am bound by, such
as our not participating in motor-
racing. But generally they are pretty
flexible,” says Wilson. “It has never
happened that we have had a conflict
with Detroit on a policy matter. I’ve
never found the corporation view has
conflicted with the national view in
any of my international appointments.
For example, on pricing. We establish
selling prices both for local and export
sales, but they have to be referred to
New York. For exports, there cannot be
special prices for special markets, there
is simply an export price. However,
New York has never forced us to change
our export price in order to protect
another GM subsidiary in another
country.”
Tight head-office supervision does not
mean that every manager is the same
person with a different name; there is
significant scope for differences even
within the general principles laid down
for GM executives in “My Years with
General Motors,” by Alfred P. Sloan,,
and reinforced in the management
courses that they must do in their pro-
gress up the GM ladder. For example,
the current managing director, Max
Wilson, is a different sort of man (and
runs a different sort of company) from
his predecessor, David Hegland.
Wilson, who joined GM in 1946 as
a 23-year-old Air Force veteran with a
distinguished war record and a mechani-
cal engineering degree from the Uni-
versity of Nebraska, took over GMH
on January 1, 1966, after a three-
month apprenticeship under Hegland
(who moved up to become managing
director of Vauxhall Motors, Britain).
He had come from running GM’s South
African operation, and before that had
run things in Belgium and Denmark.
His two years have seen a striking
change in GMH; his desk motto, “Be


The men who produce a fashion product.. . GMH’S Director of Styling, Joe R.
Schemansky (left), and his assistant director, John R. Schinella (right)
Enthusiastic,” has become the catch-
word in the organisation—and GMH
really is enthusiastic now. Morale had
been pretty low after the relative flop
of the Hegland series of Holdens when
Ford had made such energetic inroads
into GMH’s share of the market, which
had dropped from about 50 percent
in 1961 to 38 percent in 1966 for Hol-
den and its other brands.
The HD series, released just three
years ago, brought a 15 percent fall in
local Holden sales while total sales of
all vehicles remained steady; the variant
on the HD, released 14 months later,
in April, 1966, did better (local sales
rose about 4 percent despite an 8 per-
cent drop in the motor-vehicle market
as a whole), but by then Hegland had
been moved to Britain to run Vauxhall.
His three and a half years was the
shortest spell as managing director of
any since the war.
The fall in Holden sales threw the
GMH dealer network into confusion.
So Wilson brought an assistant out
here from the U.S., J. J. Owens, whose
main job is to smarten up the Holden
dealer organisation, which had become
pretty poor. After years of making big
profits by providing scarce cars to eager
buyers, most dealers could not cope
with the problems of actually selling
cars and running an efficient operation.
Already, Owens has had a lot of suc-
cess; many dealers are already showing
signs of doing a lot better although
for some it will take a fair while yet
before they do well again.
According to some senior men at
Fishermen’s Bend, the major difference
between the Wilson management style
and that of his predecessor is that Heg-
land preferred to take more decisions
himself; Wilson is very much a com-
mittee man and his committees have
really worked in building up enthu-
siasm and initiative among the senior
staff.
“My strongest approach is on people;
I’m a great believer in a decentralised
approach to management. All I do is
try to set policies we let everyone
know in committees what is going on.
I never interfere with the operation of
individual departments. There is a
time and a place for me to come in
when I’m asked.”
But to a large extent the changed
atmosphere at GMH is because the
whole management has altered so
drastically. More than half the board
has changed since Wilson’s arrival; it
it a much younger company at board
level.
Seven of the nine divisional chiefs
are younger men, new to their jobs
within the past two years, replacing
older men who have retired (by coinci-
dence, Wilson stresses, not by sacking).
So GMH is now led by youthful and
enthusiastic managers: “The company
has never been as aggressive as it is
now. We are attuned to the modern
market. This big change in the people
at the top is the main reason for our
new look; many of the former heads
had been here 40 years.”
This “young” image is one reason
the company now regards the motor-
car as a fashion product, with a need
for infinite variety in Wilson’s new
“personalised motoring” approach. Its
researchers say that by 1975 40 percent
of Australia’s population will be be-
tween 18 and 25 (which means that
almost half the company’s potential
new-car buyers are between 11 and 18
years old now). They are growing up
in a world where innovation and
change are accepted as normal; they
are fashion-conscious; want to be among
the first into new trends; are sports-
minded; like travelling; are attracted
by the more advanced and radically
designed cars now on the roads.
Apart from his management style,
Wilson’s contribution to Holdens has
been to make a basic change in
Holden’s philosophy toward “personal-
ised motoring” to produce a car that
he says is not only “the best-engineered
car ever produced in Australia,” but
that created a wide range of alterna-
tives; to change the Holden image from
“a car” to “a car for every customer.”
There are endless possible variations of
the new Holden: color schemes, V 8 or
six-cylinder engines, Premier or Stan-
dard, bucket or bench seats, and so on.
GMH has taken three years to de-
velop this new model, and Wilson
changed it considerably after he came
two years ago, particularly its engineer-
ing, as he was keen to improve its drive-
ability.
“I’m aiming at changing the image
of Holden from the old one when we
had only a basic sort of transportation
with a few variations; people don’t
want basic transportation any more,
which is what Holden has been giving
since 1948. Now people want their car
to be an extension of their own per-
sonalities.
“The options involved in personalis-
ing a car involve heavy added invest-
ment. And we must do this to meet
the competitive challenge in an affluent
society, which involves meeting a wider
demand.
“Putting out a cheaper car would
not have been a viable alternative to
this personal-motoring idea. There is
no real scope to reduce prices. We need
model changes and personal appeal in
order to keep up sales volume.
“For instance, Ford’s new car 18
months ago had a real impact on the
market; we were surprised by the suc-
cess of their V 8 engine with the public.
So we have a V 8 engine as an option
in our new Holdens released on Feb-
ruary 1. If we had picked the trend
to VBs earlier, we would probably have
up around 45 percent of the market
instead of 35 percent. The V 8 is cer-
tainly an easier car to drive; it is the
only reason Ford have done so well
lately.
“I don’t think that a cut in our
price would give us a great competitive
edge; the HR Holden was about $BO
cheaper than the Ford, but we’ve lost
penetration. So price isn’t everything.
There is certainly no intention at all of
undertaking a price war against Ford.
We have never competed that way.”
Success for the new model is vital
for Max Wilson; he is very much per-
sonally identified with it: “This is
the first time I’ve ever fathered a
new generation of car, with every-
thing from the ground up being new.
Of course I’m nervous about how it
will go. I’ll be sleeping pretty lightly
for about a month until we get a
good idea of response.”
He will be very disappointed if it
does not enable the Holden alone to
lift its share of the market up from
35 percent to 40 percent; this would
mean increasing last year’s Holden
sales in Australia of around 145,000
to 180,000, if industry forecasts of
new-vehicle registrations for 1968 of
430,000 hold good (despite the drought
and what promises to be a moderately
severe credit squeeze later this year).
“Our immediate objective is to get


the
of
f
ill
m
\
*+**-..
HI
yours with the savings
from a STRAN-STEEL building.
J l i 1 . Si-
Major savings are literally designed into the
Stran-Steel system. Stran-Steel’s unique modu-
lar design gives absolute design flexibility for
all retail, manufacturing and warehousing opera-
tions.
The clear span, column free system (up to
200 ft.) means that you utilise every foot of en-
closed space. Stran-Steel buildings are preci-
sion engineered to go up fast —you can be in
your new plant 90 days sooner and meet urgent
contract obligations.
Backed by 25 years research and experi-
ence, Stran-Steel components are designed to
hold maintenance costs to a minimum. Stran-
Steel’s modular system means that you can
watch your budget and plan your expansion as
you grow.
Stran-Steel brings more than major sav-
ings to your building project. Stran-Steel’s 2500
building designs let you plan the exact build-
ing to suit your needs.
The Stran-Steel design concept gives you a
building unmatched in style and performance—
the bold elegance of vinyl finished Stran-Color
exterior cladding gives you a building of true
individuality.
Your savings begin when you contact
Stran-Steel today. The complete Stran-
Steel service includes site investigation
and selection, building design, construc-
tion and finance.
Please forward full colour brochures on the following Stran-Steel buildings.
Retail
Manufacturing
Recreational
Warehousing
THE MO
N
TO BUILD
Faigh Street, Springvale, Victoria.
Phone 546 0233. P.O. Box 83, Springvale.
Consult Pink Pages for Local Builder/Dealer under Building-
Prefabricated
SS9BJ


back to 200,000 units a year and by
1980, when we expect the industry
to be producing about 660,000 units
a year, we hope GMH will have the
lion’s share. This compares with the
160,000-odd GMH units out of the in-
dustry’s total of about 413,000 in
1967.”
This year the Torana should help
GMH registrations along a bit more,
as its sales were limited in 1967 by
a shortage of some parts.
But Wilson does not only have to
produce a good and popular car to
win back Holden’s old status; he also
has to solve the problems of the bad,
old GM image the Australian re-
sentment of high profits and big divid-
ends, and a sympathy for the under-
dog. “Personalised motoring” may
provide the answer to those seeking
variety; it will take something more
to cater for those whose car-buying
habits are based on other considera-
tions.
It was not surprising that Austra-
lians were suspicious of GMH. Its
dedicated pursuit of profits, and a de-
sire to pursue them in secrecy (by
buying out the preference shareholders
and so avoiding the need to reveal its
results for two years, 1960 and 1961,
until the Companies Act was changed,
forcing it to do so), the repatriation
of huge dividends (almost $lOO million
in the past five years, and God knows
how much in the boom years 1960
and 1961) have given it a “knockable”
image.
One result, however, of Holden’s
declining fortunes in the past two years
is that the company has not been sub-
jected to as much attack as in its
more successful days. In 1966, its pro-
fit fell to $22.4 million, down 40 per-
cent in three years to the lowest since
1956, when it was producing just half
as many cars. And last year’s profit
will probably turn out about the same,
or possibly even a fraction lower, as
higher operating expenses, plus the con-
tinuing cost of running its plants so
far under capacity (last year it had
capacity to make about 200,000 units a
year and it turned out only about
165,000) had their impact.
And last year its dividend to the
U.S. was cut down from $2O million
to $l4 million (less $2.1 million with-
holding tax), the lowest since 1957.
APART FROM the clear benefits of
having an efficient motor industry in
Australia as a result of GM’s dili-
gence, there are advantages in having
a foreign-owned company here so
determined to be such a good guest
that it often behaves far more cir-
cumspectly than the locals do.
But Wilson says: “We don’t just see
ourselves as a good guest here; we are
an Australian company. We’re prob-
ably the only car-maker here that is
really original rather than simply
adapting a U.S. model for local con-
ditions.” And he points out that Aus-
tralians are at the top of six of the
nine divisions of GMH and that many
other senior men, like the 36-year-old
manager at the Acacia Ridge (Queens-
land) assembly plant, are Australian.
It is significant, however, that
Detroit-trained Americans head up the
styling, engineering, and finance divi-
sions at GMH, ensuring a pretty strong
American influence on the car itself
along with a strict control of the purse.
The six divisions led by Australians are
far more concerned with the mechanics
of running GMH; the manufacturing,
sales, supply, parts-power-appliances,
personnel relations, and public relations
divisions. (The Holden is nevertheless
a very Australian car, despite the
cracks by its competitors about its
striking similarity with the Opel, the
German GM product. For the GMH
styling centre at Fishermen’s Bend is
a very large operation indeed, with an
army of designers, draughtsmen, and
engineers working on the Holden
project, and thinking about cars up to
ten years or so in the future, although
it usually takes three years or so to
design and produce a new model.)
Wilson says there is no discrimina-
tion against Australians for the top job
at GMH. “There could be an Aus-
tralian managing director. But by the
time he became managing director he
would have become more an interna-
national citizen, as I am. You’ve got to
move. GMH is a step up the GM
international ladder, not just for Ameri-
cans, but for anyone who joins GM
overseas. For instance, the GM manager
in New Zealand is British, the boss of
General Motors Ltd. (GM’s large non-
automotive business) in Britain is an
Australian, and there is an Australian
running one of the South African
operations.
“More and more we’re looking for
better educated people with manage-
ment potential. We’ve sent 500 Aus-
tralians abroad; not just technical men,
but some have gone on general
management courses.”
GMH keeps a secret register of “fast
track” men who the management con-
siders have management potential. They
are all under 30 and are rated twice a
year by their divisional heads.
The “fast track” men want to go
some place in the corporation. “We
keep giving them more and more re-
sponsibility,” says Wilson. “The com-
mittee system aids this. We often
switch a man from manufacturing to
sales to see how he reacts.
“If you are good you can learn
quickly here. In GM, the principle is
that the sooner you can train some-
one to do your job, then the sooner
you can progress.”
But Wilson stresses that there are
other factors limiting the number of
candidates for the managing director’s
job: “Some able young Australians
restrict their potential development in
the company by not wanting to leave
Melbourne; this puts a ceiling on a
career with us. There are sacrifices
(like this) in being in top manage-
ment that many people do not want
to make.”
There is not much that GMH can
do about the image it has built up
over profits and dividends beyond
being perfectly open about them. For
the moment, in their annual reports
statistics of everything go back to 1948
(the number of Holdens made, amounts
spent on equipment and supplies, the
number of employees, their wages, and
export income) except such vital
matters as profits, sales, and dividends.
And while GMH has been rightly try-
ing to counter the attack on its divi-
dends, by pointing to its export earn-
ings and by stressing the way GMH has
saved Australia so much in imports by
producing vehicles locally, it would be
more convincing if it also revealed in
its annual report how much it is still
costing the country in imports, which
make up a proportion of many of its
brands, some of which, unlike the
Holden, are not all locally made.
Successive Liberal Governments
have taken the public view that in
the context of GMH’s large contribu-
tion to Australia in taxes the divi-
dends it pays are quite reasonable.
This would seem true. For instance,
last year GMH paid more in taxes
and duties (and withholding tax on
dividends) than the $22 million it
declared in profit.
The Americans justify the dividend
payments by pointing out that as per-
centages of sales, or of assets em-
ployed, they are fairly modest. This
is also true, and there is no doubt
that profits are a very reasonable pro-
portion of sales at around 6 percent,
compared with the parent company’s
average of about 10 percent in recent
years.
But some critics point out that the
“investment” on which this return is


The wraps came off the Kingswood and others of the HK series
on February!
GMH boss Max Wilson poses
with the family for a portrait
very American in style
The new series, which GMH
hopes will lift its share of the
market from 35 to 40 percent
calculated is a result of ploughing
back profits into the business; it is
the result of Australian Holden buy-
ers financing GMH’s expansion out of
the prices they have paid for Holdens
over the past 19 years.
And the company not only finances
its growth from retained profits. It
also has the use of massive deprecia-
tion provisions taken out of its rev-
enue before it works out its net profit
(last year depreciation was $22 mil-
lion, much the same figure as net
profit). In the past five years more than
$BO million has been provided out of the
prices paid for Holden cars toward
depreciation of GMFI’s fixed assets,
which were written down to only $147
million in the latest balance sheet, but
which cost $222 million.
This method of financing its expan-
sion is in contrast with that of BHP,
which has also maintained a dramatic
rate of growth in the past decade but
which has sustained it not only through
its own cash flow but also through rais-
ing considerable amounts of new capi-
tal and large borrowings. BHP’s view
was that its shareholders and the loan
market should carry a large part of
the burden of its expansion costs rather
than doing so by increasing the price
of steel. However, GMH’s different
view did not appear to involve it in
any loss of sales. Although Hartnett
claims in his book that if Holden prices
had been lower in the 19505, the car
might have got a lot more than 50 per-
cent of the market, and that this would
have worried the GM people, who are
acutely aware of the risks under U.S.
monopoly laws of being too big, Max
Wilson denies he sees 50 percent of the
market as a limit beyond which he
mustn’t go; he simply thinks he could
never get it because of the strength of
the competition.
The fact that GMH is able to put
out much more sophisticated vehicles in
these days of tougher competition at
a price that is only fractionally higher
than ten years ago, despite the huge
rises in costs of labor and materials
since then, suggests that there was a
layer of fat on the Holden prices
of a decade or so ago. And if it had
not been for the large amount of un-
used capacity the company has been
carrying in the past few years, because
of the sales downturn, there seems every
prospect that GMH’s profits would still
be very large indeed.
What matters now is the policy
GMH will adopt if Max Wilson’s new
models do get the company back up
near its 200,000 production capacity in
the next two years. On the face of it
this should bring a profits explosion.
But it probably will not work that
way. In the first place, the new range
of Holdens is more expensive to make
(with very heavy tooling costs indeed
in this “personalised motoring” con-
cept and greater spending on safety
features), and, secondly, the company
could spend almost as much cash on
modernising its plant and equipment
in the next few years as it did on ex-
pansion in the past few.
For example, last year the company
spent $6.8 million on a new nodular
iron foundry; it built a torque con-
verter plant to provide local and over-
seas demand (it now supplies its
European plants with them), and a
plating plant, all to increase technology,
not capacity.
“It is unlikely that our rate of in-
vestment in new plant will fall, even
when our capacity is no longer expand-
ing; modernisation and replacement of
old equipment (as in Brisbane, where
last year we replaced the whole plant)
will make up for it,” says Wilson. “This
year the company is spending $l6-|
million on a new plant in South Aus-
tralia to produce automatic transmis-
sions, bringing GMH’s total investment
in plants and facilities to $420 million
since the Holden project began in
1948. The new V 8 plant, to be com-
pleted late this year, will be our biggest
expansion for some time.”
There could be further capital spend-
ing, depending on policy decisions cur-
rently being made, like what to do
about the Holden Torana, which will
shortly be 80 percent Australian in cost
content, but which has to be 95 percent
Australian by 1971 under the Govern-
ment’s plans for the industry. “We have
had to make a decision (which is still
confidential) on what to do about the
engine; should we start to make four-
cylinder engines here (we are already
making sixes and are now building a
V 8 plant) or should we put a six into
the Torana? We’ve decided not to go
into the mini-car market, which is
diminishing, and will concentrate our
attack on the lower-medium-price car
market of four-cylinder cars with the
Torana against BMC and the Japanese
and so on.”
But what then? The company is
worrying about the long-term future
of the motor-car, with air pollution and
clogging up the roads being real prob-
lems. It sees its role as an innovator
in land transportation as a whole, not
just motor-cars.
“I’m intrigued by the beef roads
they seem like an ideal application of
gas turbine power,” says Wilson. “Since
my visit up there I’ve been in touch
with Detroit about it to see what they
can do on the engine side of things;
we’ll do some prototype work out here
on it. That is the sort of thing I mean
we’re interested in the whole ques-
tion of land transport for the mass
movement of goods or people.”
Wilson’s enthusiasm for this new
development is real. For one thing you
can never do at GM is rest on your
laurels. Perhaps that is justification
enough for the way they run GMH.


DUNSTAN
D. A. DUNSTAN, 104 George St., in
the inner Adelaide suburb of Norwood,
is the only State Premier with his
name and city address in the phone
book, the name standing out in heavy
black letters on the page. This would
seem to make its holder a sitting target
for cranks and phantom phone-callers,
but apparently it is not so. The worst
he gets is an occasional anonymous
abuser who speaks with a top-drawer
accent.
The citizens of Norwood, which is
a House of Assembly seat as well as
a suburb, are encouraged to use the
phone number. In a pamphlet distribu-
ted in the district, Dunstan has
explained that he is no less their local
Member for being Premier, and he
still expects them to give him a ring if
something is worrying them.
Apart from the safe politics of it,
the motive for Dunstan’s openness to
the public is clearly not so much the
old Labor style of comradeship and
desire to remain one of the boys as a
sense of noblesse oblige. Labor men
would once have described/ him (and
Federal Labor Leader Whitlam) as a
“silvertail.” He has known privilege
in class, in education, in talents, in
strength of conscience, and he is strong
in the public-school conviction that it
all entails responsibility. i.
Donald Allen Dunstan was born in
Suva 41 years ago, the son of an
Adelaide solicitor who was working
there. The well-connected family an
uncle was Sir Jonathan Cain, an
Adelaide Lord Mayor sent him to
St. Peter’s College for school, and St.
Mark’s College at the University. Out
of that crystalline South Australian
background his more imaginative
enemies traded the story, before the
last election, that he was “an orphan
Melanesian bastard” whom the Govern-
ment could deport any time it liked,
The political campaign against him
has always been more vindictive than
those waged against other parliamen-
tarians, because he is supposed to have
betrayed his class heritage,
Although South Australian “society”
is changing, there are still left among its
upper reaches some of those charac-
The Dunstan looks, voice, and bearing were made for television. Even the
Opposition privately concedes that on TV the S.A. Premier is “a star”
teristics that once produced the com-
ment that it had accepted the Reform
Bill of 1832 but not that of 1867. As
witness stand these extracts from
recent letters to the “Adelaide Ad-
vertiser” over proposals to bring some
semblance of democratic procedure
into the voting rights for the Legislative
Council (the Chamber in which the
elected Government of the Lower
House is outniumbered four to one):
“Sir —. . . Surely the Premier should
have remembered that Council voters
in the main are the people who pay
most of the State’s rates and taxes . . .
“Also it is they who are called on to
pay in direct taxation most of the huge
sums which are needed to defray the
running costs of this country.
“In view of this I am of the opinion
that the Council voters are entitled to
a little extra say in this country’s
management . . .
“It seems to me that if everyone
in this State paid the same amount
toward S.A.’s upkeep, then, and not
until then, should we have an equal
say in the country’s management . . .”
Another letter began:
“Sir—. .. A holy fetish of the
socialist demagogue is the ‘one man,
one vote’ canon, which has been
drummed into us ad nauseam: and yet
it must be most obvious even to the
less intelligent that some people out-
score their fellows in judgment and
know-how.
“Is it not in the general good to
give this wiser element a second say
“That all men are equal is an un-
reasonable assumption . . .
“One needs no qualification for a
seat in the Assembly and therefore
there should be a check on amateur
legislation.
“The only available check we have
is by giving that prerogative to some
stable element in the electorate, one
that has its roots deep in a ‘perm-
anent will.’
“Britain’s Reform Acts of the 19th
century broke the power of the land-
owners the permanent will, maybe
55
Dunstan actually attributes to St.
Peter’s, or more exactly to one of its
former headmasters, the first stirrings
of the errancy which led him toward
the Labor Party: “He began a branch
of an organisation called ‘Common
Cause,’ in which we worked for
various charitable purposes during the
war. Through these activities I learned
directly of the needs of the under-
privileged in the community and I
began to want to help them and
remove injustices. Until then I was a
young Liberal, politically.”
At the university he became what
he describes as a radical and a
socialist, “though I was probably
influenced a lot more by Robert Owen
and William Morris than by Marx. I
have also been strongly influenced by
the social and economic writings of the
British socialist Richard Crossman. I
was influenced toward the Australian
Labor Party most, perhaps, by Evatt’s


life of Holman. And there was the
‘New Statesman’ and ‘Tribune’ and
sometimes the ‘Economist.’ ”
How otherwise did he escape from
his uncles, and his cousins, and his
aunts? Part of the answer must be
evident to anyone who meets the young
Premier. One feels immediately a
quality of intelligence and a sensibility
not commonly found among Austra-
lian politicians. And something of the
gracious liver, too (his hobbies are
cooking and wine collecting).
The answers to questions flow easily
and coherently. The sentences are
composed with precision. He seems to
be saying exactly what he means, and
without effort. The voice is well
rounded and the accent surely got some
help years ago in elocution class. (He
won prizes for public speaking when
a schoolboy, later worked as an
announcer and script-writer for the
ABC, and played a great deal of
amateur live theatre.)
He speaks and looks handsome. What
does he say?
“My attitude is that politics is about
liberty and liberty is the ability to act
in any social context . . . Basically, we
have the same problems as any country
that is arid, hasn’t many natural re-
sources, but has a high degree of tech-
nical skill . . .
“Let me tell you what we have done
here. We believed, unlike the other
States, that a policy of assimilation
demanding of the Aboriginal that his
only future was to be absorbed into the
European community, that the only
discernible difference was the color
of his skin, was arrogant, impossible
of achievement, and morally wrong . . .
It was our belief in South Australia
that it was necessary to give to Aborigi-
nal people the widest possible area of
choice for their future . . .
“The duties of State Labor Govern-
ments must be clear: to maintain public
services as cheaply to the public as
they can, to provide housing and educa-
tion within the limits of their finances,
to resist regressive taxation and
endeavor to see that emphasis on pro-
gressive taxation and redistribution of
incomes be maintained ... to pioneer
in the area of social reform ... to co-
operate with a Federal Government for
national development . . .”
When Labor won office in 1965, for
the first time in 32 years, Dunstan was
given the portfolios of Attorney-
General, Social Welfare, and Aboriginal
Affairs, and was also put in charge of
town-planning. When Premier Walsh
decided to resign in May, 1967, in pre-
paration for his retirement the local
ALP has a rule barring men of 70 or
more from standing for Parliament
Dunstan became Premier and
Treasurer. He is generally credited
with being the moving spirit behind
most of the important legislation since
Labor took office. He has introduced
a third of the Bills himself.
Among the more interesting of these
have been:
• Social Welfare Acts, which have
brought South Australia up from being
the most backward in the nation to a
position of clear leadership over the
other States. The provision of adequate
assistance to households without a male
head is recognised by social workers as
an event of major social importance,
especially in the prevention of delin-
quency.
• Legislation granting, for the first
time in Australia, land rights for
Aborigines.
• Legislation allowing the Government
to undertake the most comprehensive
town-planning schemes in Australia.
• Housing and rental acts giving
slum-dwellers greater protection against
rack-renting landlords who had prolife-
rated in South Australia under the
Playford administration.
• Legislation which will grant female
employees equal pay for equal work.
• Succession Duties legislation prevent-
ing wealthy estates from escaping from
the relative burdens which fell on the
less affluent sections of the community.
(It was this legislation that caused
Jessie Cooper, MLC, of the wealthy
brewing family, to compare Dunstan
with Lloyd George, who also was
alleged to have “bitter resentment
against the aristocracy of England” and
who also “set out to break the landed
gentry.”)
Dunstan has been largely behind the
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
introduction of lotteries, the off-course
tote, late hotel closing, and other
liquor reforms. His Bill to abolish
capital punishment and whipping was,
however, rejected in the Upper House.
(He was also one of the forces pushing
the Federal Labor Party away from
open support for the White Australia
Policy.)
The Leader of the Opposition, Steele
Hall (who is younger than Dunstan),
admits that many of Labor’s legislative
measures have something to recommend
them and have been well received, but
he says the Liberal-Country League can
win the election early in 1968 because
of three things: mistakes in the public
relations of the Labor Government, the
economic problems of the drought, and
Labor’s inability to advance industriali-
sation and capital investment.
The Labor Party lost some ground
when it first took office by its clumsy
handling of some Bills which the
Opposition painted as infringements of
the rights of individuals, and, also, it
seems, has suffered occasionally through
the slightly arrogant edge to Dunstan’s
personality becoming publicly manifest.
However, Dunstan’s popularity appears
to have grown recently as a result of
his constant use of television to tell the
State what his Government is up to.
The Dunstan looks, voice, and bearing
were made for television, and even the
Leader of the Opposition privately con-
cedes that on this medium the Premier
is “a star.”
South Australian primary industry
has suffered with that of the eastern
States over the past couple of years, and
secondary industry (which consists
largely of motor vehicles, consumer
durables, and other allied metal press
trades) has been seriously affected by
the drought-induced drop in demand in
the eastern States. Unemployment
beyond three percent would almost
certainly bring down the State Govern-
ment, Acts of God and nature being
no excuse. For that reason demand in
the eastern States will finally decide
the coming election.
Dunstan claims that unemployment
will not be at two percent by election
time. In the meantime, he has launched
into a Sell South Australia campaign
of an intensity surprising in a man of
social reformist temperament who has
always shown himself suspicious of the
workings of capital.
“What we intend to do,” he says, “is
leap-frog over the other States in in-
dustrial development.” He recently an-
nounced that his Government had
signed a contract with two industrial
research firms to carry out an imme-
diate and thorough survey to give
South Australia a firm foundation on
which to build its economic planning.
The firms are W. D. Scott, of Aus-
tralia, and Arthur D. Little, of the
U.S.A., the latter noted for a similar
survey it made of the economy of a
Canadian province some years ago.
After some years of thinking about
and then legislating for legal, social,
and economic reform it seems that
Dunstan now finds new excitement in
the idea of attracting and engineering
economic development. He strongly re-
sists the suggestion that this role is
somewhat out of character for Fabian-
style intellectual reformers. “Before we
came to power,” he says, “the develop-
ment of the State was in the hands of
Tom Playford and two typists, and I
believe and can prove that from the
mid-’sos Playford’s economic achieve-
ments became more mythical than real.
He lost some industries because he did
not have enough information to give
them about economic factors here.”
When the professional surveys are
completed Dunstan intends to set out
after world industry armed with infor-
mation on which any business can esti-
mate its capital needs and prospects.
“In that respect we will be ahead of the
other States, who cannot always supply
the information required by interested
firms. We will have a high degree of
artisanship, a labor supply, access to
minerals and metals, and natural gas.
With the appropriate economic surveys
as a reservoir of information we will
leap-frog past the others.”
The legal reformer and social en-
gineer is now also very much the
Treasurer. He is also, among the rest,
a swimmer and weight-lifter and, of
course, still something of an actor. But,
unlike most actors, he has not so far
threatened and announced more than
he can perform.


FATAL
STATISTIC
IN THE YEAR ending March 31,
1967, 3296 people were killed on Aus-
tralian roads. One of the last fatal
statistics of the year was Edith May
Watts, of Peakhurst, Sydney. She was
killed in a head-on collision near Thora
on the Bellingen-Dorrigo road on Wed-
nesday, March 29. The story of her
death and its tragic consequences was,
to some degree, repeated 3296 times in
just one year.
ALFRED AND EDITH WATTS, of
Peakhurst, Sydney, with their sons, Jim
and John, and her sister, Mrs. Clara
James, were holidaying at their cottage
at Nambucca Heads, on the north coast
of New South Wales. They had made
up their minds the day before that they
would go and see the falls at Dorrigo
and Ebor. In the morning Alfred Watts
had gone fishing. He got back about 1
o’clock and Jim drove the family in the
car, a Holden station wagon belonging
to Mr. Watts’ company, from Nam-
bucca Heads to Dorrigo, then out to the
falls.
Mrs. Watts wanted to do some shop-
ping, so the family came back to Dor-
rigo. She bought shoes and several
other things. Mr. Watts bought pota-
toes, because, he says, Dorrigo potatoes
are very nice. The family went on to
Ebor Falls, about 30 miles away, and
spent half an hour looking at them.
They did not go back to Dorrigo, but
came directly home, straight down the
Dorrigo mountains.
Jim Watts was still driving. He was
23 and had just started in business as a
carpenter. Edith Watts was in the mid-
dle, her husband on the near side by
the window, Mrs. James and John, who
Is sub-normal and 15, were in the back
seat.
They were not far from the scene of
the accident when Alfred Watts put his
seat belt on. He explained to Jim how
firm they held you and told him to put
his on, which he did. This undoubtedly
saved their lives. Watts’ belt broke dur-
ing the accident, and it takes 40 tons
pressure to break a seat belt.
Watts remembers the car coming over
the new bridge at the foot of the
mountain. He remarked to the family
that it was the end of the Dorrigo, seven
miles down the mountain. About a mile
after the bridge the accident happened.
Nobody in the car can remember clearly
what took place. It was on a slight
bend in the road. A Land-Rover was
coming toward them and behind the
Land-Rover was another car. A man
in a new Holden panel van had passed
the car and was moving up to pass the
Land-Rover. A Land-Rover is more or
less a blind spot, and he was half past
it before he saw the Watts’ car. Jim
Watts naturally swung the car to the
right and he did, too; the collision
took place virtually head-on. The cars
hit on the dirt off the road and went
up in the air.- All the damage took
place down the right side.
The next thing Alfred Watts remem-
bers is coming to the following day.
The doctor looked straight into his eyes
and told him his wife was dead and
his two sons were badly injured and in
danger of death. It was a terrible shock,
but Watts feels now it was a good idea
because he was under sedation and it
had time to grow on him as he came
out of it.
Edith Watts was thrown under the
dashboard. Her husband and Jim hit
the dash. Mrs. James and John were
tossed around in the back. After the
accident blankets were brought from
farms and two ambulances came, one
from Bellingen, the other from Coffs
Harbor. The whole party was taken to
Bellingen Hospital. Mrs. Watts had
severe head and chest injuries. She died
seven minutes after arriving at the
hospital.
Jim Watts was cut through the head
and had to have operations down to his
brain. The Air Ambulance flew him to
Sydney, along with John and Clara
James. She had head and chest
injuries. John had concussion and a
gash from his forehead across his eye
and down his face. He was shockingly
bruised.
Alfred Watts received broken ribs, a
cut nose, head injuries, and the area
of his Adam’s apple was pushed an inch
and a half off centre. This must have
happened when he hit the dashboard.
The doctors say they can’t do much.
They say an operation would probably
make it worse. He also lost most of
his teeth and his hand swelled up to
a huge size. He says it’s still not right.
When he plays bowls now he has to
use a smaller bowl. He just can’t hold
on to the bigger ones. The car was a
complete write-off.
Alfred Watts believes that the young
chap in the other car got a cut on his
top lip and was a bit dazed.
Mrs. James and John were in St.
Vincent’s for about two months. Now
she is in a nursing home, and will be
there for the rest of her life. John is
in a home for sub-normal children.
Alfred Watts was in hospital a fort-
Alfred and Edith Watts before the car
accident which cost her her life and
him his peace of mind
night, and then was nursed by his
daughter, Mrs. Clare Smith, at her
home for a further six weeks.
Jim Watts was in hospital for months,
being fed through the nose and mouth.
The first thing he can remember was
three months later when a sister came
to his bed and said, “Good morning,
James. Here’s today’s newspaper.” He
said he was shocked to see the date; it
was June 6.
Jim Watts will never work for him-
self now. He is back at work with a
carpenter. According to his father he
doesn’t remember half his trade. He
was engaged to be married, but that
is off. His girl gave away her job
to look after him and did everything
she could. Before the accident they
were both very happy and he was
deeply concerned about her. According
to his father, the accident has com-
pletely changed his previous attitude
toward her and everything else. Now
he gets upset suddenly. He has had two
epileptic fits since the accident. His
father asked a specialist if he would
get over the fits and he said: “Let me
say this, he’ll be taking pills for the
rest of his life.” He is 23 and was never
sick before.
He has also lost all sense of taste.
When he was tested, he drank coffee
with two tablespoons of salt in it with-
out minding. There are lots of things
he has forgotten which the family
hopes will come back. According to his
father he gets tied up with the words
he uses. Also, he can’t drive his new
utility with “Jim Watts, Builder” writ-
ten on the side. He can drive, but
the main reason he does not, he says,
is for the sake of other people. But,
his father says, at the moment he’s
having a good run; it’s three months
since he had a fit, and now his father
lets him move around more so that he
doesn’t feel coddled.
Mr. Watts says his whole life has
been completely changed by the acci-


When this bank says deliver,
you deliver.
It happened over lunch at Sardi's last year. First
National City Bank smiled at their intended Aus-
tralian partner, Waltons. "If we're going into this
thing, you deliver a Finance Corporation Secretary
who can deliver security". So Waltons delivered
Garth McFarlane an Australian financier with 25
years experience. Tough years for Australia when the
national demand for money kept men like Garth
worn thin. Now that FNCB-Waltons is a working
fact (assets grown to $7O million, shareholders'
funds to $lO million, list of investors to over 28,000)
you might feel that Garth McFarlane could take it
easy. But you know how it is. His team of invest-
ment officers has to deliver water-tight investment
security in every detail. Deliver it to our investors
today, tomorrow and through all the years of
growth that this country has ahead. And when a
guy like Garth McFarlane promises to deliver, he
delivers.
Royal Exchange Building, Pitt and Bridge Streets,
Sydney, 2000 FNCB-WALTONS
WAL2SN


Just about the only thing
we don’t make for offices
But Brownbuilt do manufacture
Australia’s largest range of
steel office equipment.
Brownbuilt make the most
fashionable, efficient and
colourful range of executive,
typist, clerical desks, tables
and credenzas, cupboards,
wardrobes, card cabinets, vertical
files, plan files, Compactus office
file and storage units... phew!
Even waste paper bins.
And every piece of Brownbuilt
office equipment is guaranteed
5 years and specially treated
to resist rust.
Come and see the simulated
office settings in our own
showrooms, or call in our
free advisory service now.
I
Brownbuilt
lllllllllllllllll| llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||i LIMITED iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
STEEL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
Melbourne 489 2311 / Sydney 521 4244 / Brisbane 47 4077 / Adelaide 76 5111
Canberra 9 4824 / Hobart 2 6571 / Launceston 2 5584 / Perth 50 1241 or 21 5967
6566
dent. “\V here 1 had a happy family,”
he says, “now there is nothing. It’s so
hard to realise until it hits you. I’ve
sympathised with other people when
they have lost a wife or husband and
told them to keep their chin up. You
just don’t know what it’s like until it
knocks on your own door. It is hard
to know how empty a home is without
a woman. I was married to her for 27
years, and knew her for 35. We had
no arguments or rows. It was just
harmony to come home. She was
healthy, a good dancer, well-liked by
all she had one of the biggest
funerals in the district. She was liked
everywhere. She had her sister and
mother with us and nursed her mother
through two strokes and for two years
until she died.
“In a flash of a second it is all gone.
You just can’t understand it. We didn’t
have any money, but we owned our
house. Now it all blows up after years
of struggle. Nine out of ten people
have their lives in their homes. You
have to lose your wife to see how
much comfort she is to you around
the home, to appreciate how a home
changes with your dear ones out of
it. - —*=!*!« | : Jjf;
Mr. Watts says that now he gets up
at 5.30 or 6.00 a.m. to do the wash-
ing, get breakfast, and clean up.
Because he’s a salesman he often gets
tied up with clients and doesn’t usually
get home until after 6 p.m. Then he
has to cook a meal. It is usually eight
o’clock before he can relax.
Getting out and staying active he
believes is the only thing that is help-
ing him. He wants to be so tired that
he goes straight to sleep and doesn’t
fret. He is 55 now and will probably
work another 10 years. At this stage he
has no thought of another marriage,
though he admits that coming home to
yourself every night is “trying.” He
feels he is fortunate to have good
neighbors, a “mile of friends” and a
bowling club. His activities as presi-
dent of the club help him consider-
ably.
Edith Watts was also a bowler. The
Peakhurst Bowling Club has since given
$lOOO to the Air Ambulance, leading
other New South Wales clubs by a
long way.
As Watts looked through the family
album for photographs, he remarked:
“This was the kind of thing that mainly
interested the women.” But he took a
long time finding photographs. He
pointed out the cottage at Nambucca
Heads where he said he and his wife
had hoped to finish their days, where
they had been heading when the acci-
dent took place.
In reference to this accident, a young
man of 18 was tried on a charge of
dangerous driving. He pleaded not
guilty and said in a statement from
the dock that he had pulled out to pass
another car and had felt he had
plenty of room. He said he did not
see the car coming the other way until
he attempted to pass a second car. The
jury found him not guilty.


THE
SECRET
WAR
UNITED STATES
By JOHN DAVY and ANDREW WILSON
U.S. Ambassador Goldberg maps the Pueblo crisis for the UN
Security Council
AT THE SANTA MONICA head-
quarters of the RAND Corporation
a “think tank” of the United States Air
Force a visitor asked recently where
the next Cuba would be. “In outer
space,” was the reply of an expert.
“Probably over the interception of an
American reconnaissance satellite.” The
context was right, the location wrong.
The nearest thing to another Cuba
turned out last week to be the inter-
ception of an intelligence ship, not in
outer space but a prosaic 13 miles or
so off North Korea.
It is the second time in eight years
that automated spying has provoked a
crisis. The last was in 1960, when Gary
Powers’ U-2 intelligence plane was shot
down over Russia and Mr. Khrushchev
called off a summit meeting. The North
Koreans could have chosen other targets
than the Pueblo with which to stir
things up. But the fact is that the new
type of spying, particularly with elec-
tronics, promises endless “provocations”
and intrusions for interested govern-
ments to seize on.
The lightly armed 197 ft.-long
Pueblo is only one of a fleet of about
30 American ferret ships that patrol
the globe with their array of antennae
and electronic listening-devices. Their
twofold task is to discover hostile radar
wavelengths and to intercept radio
messages. This is what the ill-fated
Liberty was doing when attacked
(losing 33 dead) by Israeli aircraft in
the Middle East war.
The Russians call their spy ships
trawlers, though their fishing is
desultory. They shadow every NATO
naval exercise, occasionally appear
within ten miles of the missile early
warning station at Fylingdales, in York-
shire, and once spoiled a naval display
put on for the Queen Mother. Some
time ago a Soviet trawler ashore
off West Africa. When the tide
down its bottom was seen to be
bristling with sonar devices for listening
to movements underwater.
Aircraft are still in the spy business.
High-flying U-2s, flown by Formosan
pilots, are sometimes shot down over
the Chinese mainland. But the real
aerial spy trade has passed to reconnais-
sance satellites, American and Soviet,
which pass over all of us daily, among
some 400 other manmade objects orbit-
ing the earth. One function of in-
telligence satellites is optical. At a
height of 150 miles they can photograph
objects on earth only 20 feet long.
Films from the American satellite are
ejected in capsules which, after re-
entering the atmosphere and sprout-
ing a parachute, are caught by air-
craft. Their other major function is
electronic: to pick up information about
enemy radar and also, perhaps, by look-
ing along the horizon, to record tele-
phone traffic being transmitted by
microwave radio links (such as those
beamed from the GPO’s London
tower).
Another type of intelligence satellite
has infra-red sensors which, with the
aid of new compact power sources, is
expected to be able to detect clandes-
tine , industrial installations.
Back on earth electronic spying is
in the hands of ground stations, of which
there are probably 1000, deployed
wherever there are United States forces.
Most stations are operated by service-
men and could be mistaken for ordin-
ary military signal stations. But the
collation of this intelligence is in dif-
ferent hands. The overlord of electronic
spying for America is an organisation
called the National Security Agency.
The agency was set up by a secret
directive of President Truman in 1952
to take over communications and spy-
ing for both the Pentagon (which
already had its own organisation, the
Armed Forces Security Agency) and
other organs of the executive. The
NSA has been described as being
“within, but not part of, the Depart-
ment of Defence.” Its job is to inter-
cept, analyse, and decode the messages
of all others.
Its headquarters is a $35 million
building on an 82-acre site at Fort
Meade, halfway between Washington
and Baltimore! Opened in 1958, with
an $ll million annex added later,
the three-storey structure of con-
crete, glass, and steel is surrounded
by three wire fences one of them
electrified and guarded by armed
marines. Inside there are eight snack
bars, an operating theatre, a dentist’s
surgery, a bank, a network of pneumatic
tubes, and what is probably the largest
assembly of computers in the world.
The agency has 13,000 civilian em-
ployees—a few thousand more than the
Central Intelligence Agency—and at
least 1000 more overseas. It is much
more hush-hush, than the t'iA, and the
initials NSA are sometimes said to
stand for “never say anything.”
Overseas the NSA has two regional
headquarters, NSA Far East, in Japan,
and NSA Europe, in Germany. To
these come the millions of tape re-
cordings made of foreign radar and
radio signals by ships, planes, and land
units.
Working with the NSA are two
NATO establishments in London: the
Communication Security and Evalua-
tion Agency, Europe (ESCA), and the
Signal Distribution and Accounting
Agency, Europe (EUDAC). Subordin-
ate to the Agency are also the com-
munications intelligence services of the
three armed forces, of which the big-
gest is the U.S. Air Force, with over-
seas intelligence headquarters in Frank-
furt and Hawaii.
The NSA does not come under the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, but reports
through the Secretary of Defence to the
President’s National Security Council.
The CIA reports in a similar way,
and there is an exchange of informa-
tion between the two bodies, controlled
by a third one, the U.S. Foreign In-
telligence Advisory Board, whose chair-
man for the past five years has been
Mr. Clark Clifford, Mr. McNamara’s
successor as Defence Secretary. Un-


official estimates put the current NSA
budget at over $lOOO million a year r
The raw material for this vast opera-
tion, which swallows two percent of the
annual defence budget, falls into two
main kinds radio messages between
people, and radio and radar messages
between machines. The first forms the
basis for a vast code-cracking effort,
the second is the basis for a vast hidden
arms race, the electronic warfare battle.
The size of the Agency’s task in moni-
toring military and diplomatic com-
munications around the world may be
judged by the problems which the
Russians must face in monitoring
United States traffic. The U.S. defence
communications systems alone transmit
a quarter of a million messages annu-
ally, using equipment worth $529.5
billion, manned by 30,000 servicemen.
This does not include the vast short-
range radio traffic between aircraft and
ships, diplomatic or commercial traffic.
Possibly the most convincing explan-
ation of the Pueblo’s close approach to
Korean shores is that, like the Liberty
during the Middle East war, its mission
was to record governmental and mili-
tary radio traffic, in an attempt to get
a line on North Korea’s military and
political intentions in the next few
weeks. Monitoring has to be selective
in this way, and special attention is paid
to spots where trouble is brewing. It
was clear that something was going on
in North Korea the Pueblo probably
moved in to listen to very-high-
frequency messages, which can be
picked up only at relatively short range.
A surprising amount of military and
official communications still go on en
clair neither scrambled nor coded
—because of the expense and labor
involved. Nevertheless, even backward
countries can now use very sophisticated
codes by buying commercially available
“rotar” type machines. These consist of
discs with the alphabet round the edge,
electrically interconnected. The discs
revolve as the text is typed into the
machine, setting up a coding pattern
with tens of thousands of different com-
binations. To crack the code, you need
dither enormously long passages of
coded text or some other clues. (For
‘instance, a foreign office may send the
same circular message to each of its
'overseas embassies and the coded
versions can be used to help the crack-
ing process.) There is only one com-
pletely uncrackable code system,
embodied in the famous “one-time
pads,” in which use is made of lists
of random numbers of which only two
identical copies exist one for the
encoder, one for the decoder. The
highest security traffic of most advanced
countries probably uses this random-
numbers system including the Wash-
ington-Moscow hot line.
The NSA’s eavesdropping and code-
cracking operations, although using very
advanced equipment and methods,
represent a relatively traditional activity
compared to the job of PROD (for
production), one of its fastest-growing
divisions. PROD provides the material
for an endless electronic battle of wits,
aimed at evading or deceiving enemy
radar and missile guidance systems,
while improving one’s own. This battle
got under way in World War 11, when
the Germans produced a bomber
guidance system called Headache, and
Britain countered it with Aspirin,
which made the attackers deliver their
bombs into the sea. Before any counter-
measures can be designed, precise de-
tails of an enemy radar must be known:
its location, frequencies, power, length
of radio pulses, and so on. This is the
job of the elaborate electronic snooping
system now operated by major powers.
Aircraft and ships cruise near frontiers
and shores, are picked up by radar
beams, and record their blips on tape.
They must be heavily loaded with
multiple antennae and receivers to
register many different types of radar
beams and signals.
The Vietnam War is proving a forcing
ground for electronic intelligence and
counter-measures, particularly the effort
to outwit the Russian-built SAMS
(surface-to-air-missiles). There are
crude but effective jamming methods, in
which aircraft swamp the radar re-
ceivers below with “noise.” There are
more subtle techniques of deception
which distort the radar echoes, or insert
extra pulses, to confuse the monitors
below. It may even be possible in some
cases to broadcast pulses which com-
pletely disorder the timing mechanisms
of the radar below.
A single modern warship may contain
five or six different radar systems
for watching the air, watching the sea
surface, height ranging, gunnery control,
missile guidance, etc. The Enterprise,
the nuclear-powered aircraft-carrier
now standing off North Korea, has a
new type of aerial system weighing 200
tons, which replaces multiple dishes
with electronic-scanning techniques.
Electronic intelligence must constantly
probe these systems to discover their
weaknesses. It is a never-ending and
increasingly expensive competition,
already far out of reach of all but
advanced nations. It is also likely to
encourage “saturation” strategies and
tactics. To press home any attack
through the electronic barrage will
increasingly demand a variety of
weapons and techniques, ranging from
conventional anti-radar chaff, through
electronic deception, to dummy missiles
and warheads which can change course
(using auxiliary rockets) during flight.
Precision attacks with one weapon
against one target will become in-
creasingly unrewarding, while blanket
attacks, on both tactical and strategic
scales, will be used to overwhelm the
defences.
Why do the super-powers spend so
much money and, as the Pueblo inci-
dent shows, take such great risks in the
electronic spy game? The answer is
that intelligence obeys laws of its own.
Even in the West its budget is secret,
its programs cannot be publicly ques-
tioned. It is thus the stronghold of
the backroom expert, who is profes-
sionally bound to explore every new
field and use every new technique.
Since his opponent follows the same
philosophy, it might be argued that he
could hardly do otherwise. Moreover,
if one side managed to gain a signifi-
cant lead over the other in electrpnic
intelligence and warfare, it could
gravely affect the strategic balance.
One of the weapons most vulnerable
to the enemy’s electronic defences is
the manned bomber. Not only is it
visible to radar (unless it flies close
to the ground) but, in the case of
America’s Strategic Air Command, the
bomber’s nuclear war mission is de-
pendent on receipt of a code in mid-
flight. This is part of the “fail-safe”
procedure, which forbids any nuclear-
armed aircraft to cross a certain line
unless it has received the “go code,”
transmitted in voice on the orders of
the President. If the wavelengths used
to transmit the code could be discovered
and jammed, SAC’s 520 long-range
nuclear B-52s (theoretically capable of
delivering four times the megatonnage
of all America’s missiles put together)
might as well not exist. On nuclear
missions the B-52s all carry electronic
counter-measures and one in every three
may carry nothing else. These con-
fuse ground radar, upset the electronic
guidance of missiles from fighters, and
protect the Hound Dog missiles which
carry the H-bombs from the bomber
to the target. But some missiles use
infra-red devices to “home” on the
bomber’s hot jet pipes, and to confuse
these the aircraft fires parachute flares.
In the case of intercontinental ballis-
tic rockets, the electronic accent is
primarily on attempts to blind the
enemy’s missile early warning system,
but there are also measures to confuse
the electronic guidance system, which
puts missiles on their target course after
launching (perhaps one reason why
Soviet trawlers do so much fishing off
the Cape Kennedy space-launch site).
Since the Soviet Union has relatively
fewer and larger long-range missiles—
-1650 compared with America’s 1700 —
an American ability to interfere with
even a few hundred launches could be
important. But with the development of
Russian and American anti-missile de-
fence systems there will now be a
premium on electronic intelligence
which could enable an attacker to blind
the multi-function array radar which
directs the defender’s intercepting
missiles. If one side achieves this tech-
nique long before the other, the
“destabilisation” of the military balance
could be critical.
A bigger risk is that expenditure on
electronic counter-measures, counter-
counter-measures, and so on, will even-
tually make one side bankrupt. Perhaps
it was not just a joke when Mr.
Krushchev, visiting America in 1959,
suggested to Ambassador Cabot Lodge
that the U.S. and the Soviet Union
should get together, pool their intelli-
gence systems, and save the money.


OVERSEAS
For Johnson: the week of
the hawk and the dove
THE UNASHAMED boast within the
White House was clearly that the Presi-
dent had played the present crisis with
superb political skill. Having led on
the hawks and briefly dazzled them
with the glint of steel in his mobilisa-
tion announcement on Thursday he
succeeded in winning them all with his
surprisingly softly worded weekend
broadcast.
What persuaded LBJ to draw back
so dramatically from an immediate
showdown with North Korea was still,
like most major decisions associated
with his presidency, shrouded in
mystery. It could be, however, that
the simplest explanation was the best.
Once the blow of the loss of the
Pueblo, with all that that involved for
U.S. security, had been accepted, the
President was said to have focused all
his interest on the survival and safe
return of the 83 men who comprised its
crew. There was only one thing wrong
with all the various military responses
suggested in the face of what Mr. Dean
Rusk bluntly, and perhaps even rashly,
called “an act of war.” Far from
helping the American sailors held in
North Korean hands, none of them
neither blockade, nor bombing, nor
even land invasion seemed likely to
do anything but ensure their deaths.
Whatever else he may be, LBJ has
always been a political realist. He
therefore recognised virtually from the
beginning that the one thing which
would count in the end was whether
or not he succeeded in getting those
sailors back alive. The only way to do
that, he soon concluded, was to rely on
world opinion hence the appeal to
the United Nations.
In following this course the President
took some political risks at home. Pre-
sumably, however, he must have recog-
nised that they were far more likely
to be short-term threats than long-
term perils. What he would not have
been able to live down was involving
the U.S. in a new war in Asia: what
he could tolerate, at least temporarily,
was a general impression that if he had
been weak he had also been wise. Nor
did this appear to have been any kind
of sudden decision on President John-
son’s part.
Earlier last week, at a secret meeting
with Congressional leaders, the Presi-
dent certainly impressed even Senate
doves like Senator Mike Mansfield by
the firmness with which he dealt with
the arguments of the hawks for prompt
and immediate reprisal measures. After-
wards, Senator Mansfield a leading
critic of the Administration’s Vietnam
policy, even in his position as Senate
Majority Leader was heard to say
that he had never felt prouder of the
President than he did at that meeting.
That was not, of course, a view that
was shared all round. Governor Ronald
Reagan and the Chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee called for
a 24-hour ultimatum to North Korea,
and the President’s closest Congressional
comrade, Senator Everett Dirksen (the
Republican Minority Leader) angrily
complained: “We are altogether too
slow on the trigger here.”
Mr. Johnson’s intimates claimed,
however, that it was these voices that
alarmed them. What was said still to
obsess the President was the compari-
son that he was sure would eventually
be made between his conduct on this
occasion and President Kennedy’s hand-
ling of the Cuban crisis. In this context
Senator Robert Kennedy’s pronounce-
ments on the current crisis so far
all characteristically equivocal were
being watched with an almost equal
mixture of anxiety and suspicion within
the White House.
The readiness of large segments of
public opinion to equate the present
situation with the Cuban confrontation
of 1962 remained perhaps the most
alarming development in Washington.
In private, Administration sources
justifiably insisted that a much closer
parallel was with the U-2 incident of
1960, when the Eisenhower Administra-
tion finally decided that it had no
alternative but to accept, if under
strong protest, Moscow’s action in try-
ing and convicting the captured pilot,
Francis Gary Powers.
But it is rare even for an American
newspaper to be bold enough to declare
publicly, as the Washington “Star” did
at the weekend: “All of us might as
well face the fact that North Korea
has this country over a barrel.” A far
more popular line, at least away from
the sophisticated Eastern seaboard, was
for newspapers to follow the Chicago
“Tribune” line by attacking the Admin-
istration for being “vacillating and
pusillanimous” in the face of a chal-
lenge from a “two-bit country that the
U.S. could squash like a bug.”
The fact, of course, was that but for
a series of misfortunes—or, in effect, a
series of military accidents —the present
crisis would never have assumed the
proportions that it did. While there was
an understandable reluctance to hold
any formal inquest yet, there was
general agreement that the whole sys-
tem by which the U.S. conducted its
spy-ship missions would have to be
looked at again, and much else besides.
Perhaps the most acute shock for
American super-power was the sudden
revelation of just how far elaborate
nuclear strategic planning could bring
about a total immediate tactical
paralysis. Many Americans would take
some time to forget that the only reason
why jet fighter-bombers could not, even
in the final stages of the Pueblo’s cap-
ture, be sent to its rescue was that all
the available planes in South Korea
were rigged solely for nuclear missions.
Something appeared to have gone
badly wrong, too, with the much adver-
tised “infallible” American command
system. The President, for example, was
in no way responsible for the decision
to send the nuclear-powered aircraft-
carrier Enterprise and its accompanying
Interrogation of one of the North Koreans who failed to kill South Korea’s
President Park. Is the Korean crisis, part of a wider communist strategy?


armada into the Sea of Japan—a de-
cision that by the middle of the week
had already become something of an
embarrassment to the Administration.
Why the news of the Pueblo’s harass-
ment, boarding, and capture took so
long to reach either Mr. Rusk or Mr.
McNamara no one would say, but at
least at the summit of American power
there seemed to have been the most
obvious and human of explanations.
When the incident began the President
was out attending a private dinner
party.
Before it had concluded, he had
returned to the White House and gone
straight to sleep in the Executive Man-
sion, totally unaware of what was going
on. No one, apparently, thought that
the nature of the emergency warranted
disturbing him at dinner or even alert-
ing him when he returned to the White
House and to bed.
All the immediate decisions some
claimed for as much as three hours
were thus made either by the mili-
tary or on the authority of Mr. Walt
Rostow, the President’s Special Assis-
tant, who, some. time after 11 p.m.,
took charge of the White House Situa-
tion Room. It was not until 2 a.m. that
Mr. Rostow, presumably finally recog-
nising that this was not something that
he could tackle by himself, decided to
have the President awakened.
Perhaps ominously for Mr. Rostow,
the President complained to more than
one journalistic confidant that by the
time he was brought into the act a
number of options had already been
closed for him. Far more in the dock
than Mr. Rostow, however, was Admiral
Thomas Moorer, the Chief of Naval
Operations in Washington, who, no
doubt slightly unfairly, was being held
accountable not just for the denouement
for the Pueblo story but for its origin
as well.
There was, in fact, very little doubt
that the U.S.’s sense of humiliation was
the main imponderable factor here.
Would it finally spill over .into an
irresistible outburst of jingoistic fury
and outrage or could it subside gradu-
ally into irritation and frustration over
the bungling of the brass hats?
To its credit, the Pentagon behaved
from the outset of the story with an
unprecedented candor, but this in a
sense only compounded the political
difficulties inherent in the situation for
the President. The Administration’s
prompt admission that the Pueblo was
an intelligence-gathering vessel must
have been intended to keep public in-
dignation within bounds. Instead, how-
ever, it merely whetted the public’s
appetite for further details and re-
assurance.
Why was the ship not protected by
an escort, especially as its standing
orders laid down that it could go within
13 miles of the Korean coast? How
could any American vessel allow itself—
in the “New York Times” phrase—“to
be led like a Roman slave into an
enemy harbor”? Did its captain have—
as Francis Gary Powers certainly did in
the U-2 —instructions to destroy every-
thing rather than let any equipment fall
into enemy hands? How did it happen
that, even when it asked for aid, no
answer was apparently forthcoming?
These would be difficult questions for
a government at any time, and they
were clearly impossible ones for the
American Administration to comment
on officially immediately.
One significant detail that emerged
was that (just like the old World War I
Q-ships) the Pueblo was required at all
times to keep its three guns hidden
under canvas. This inevitably ministered
to the impression that even if it were
directly under the control of the Navy
the Pueblo had far more in common
with the cloak-and-dagger agencies of
the American Government than anyone
in the Administration, including
Ambassador Goldberg, at the UN cared
to admit.
South Vietnam
Siege of Khe Sanh
IN THE REMOTE north-west corner
of South Vietnam the stage has been
set for what could be the biggest and
bloodiest battle of this agonisingly
drawn-out war.
Two North Vietnamese divisions, one
brand-new to the war in the South, are
prowling in the hills round the desolate
American Marine garrison of Khe Sanh.
For the past week the Vietnamese have
contented themselves with artillery
bombardment and small probing
actions. The Americans have hit back
at suspected North Vietnamese positions
with unusually heavy air attacks, in-
cluding three or four raids a day by
giant 852 bombers.
Inevitably the temptation in Saigon
is to believe that this could be the war’s
climacteric. Events outside Vietnam
have also conspired to encourage the
feeling that something unusually
dramatic is at hand. First the spectre
of a general Indo-Chinese war was
raised by North Vietnam’s thumping
defeat of the Laotian Government
forces two weeks ago. Then the North
Korean seizure of the American spy-
ship Pueblo inevitably prompted fears
that Hanoi, with the aid of its Asian
Allies, might be looking for a general
crisis in the Far East.
If these fears were realised, the
nature of the Vietnam war would
obviously change overnight. The fate of
the South Vietnamese people would
shrink into insignificance as the Penta-
gon’s computers rehearsed their gradu-
ated resporlses right down to the last
megadeath. It has, therefore, never been
more important than now to try to
understand the mind of the North Viet-
namese leaders. This is as difficult as
ever.
However, there is no evidence yet
available in Saigon that Hanoi is plan-
ning to enlarge the war beyond its
present boundaries. As for the Laotian
affair, the signs are that Hanoi just
wanted to reclaim an area which until
1966 had always belonged to its Pathet
Lao allies. The knockabout performance
of the Royal Laotian Army gave an
exaggeratedly threatening appearance
to what was essentially a communist
move of self-defence. It is far harder to
be certain about the Pueblo affair, but
it is worth remembering that, so far,
Hanoi has jealously guarded its right to
conduct the war in its own way.
It is difficult to see why the lone
wolves in Hanoi should now be taking
part in a risky plan of concerted action
over which they might have very little
control. This leaves the question of
what General Giap, North Vietnam’s
Defence Minister and reportedly super-
vising the Khe Sanh operation in per-
son, is hoping to achieve at the de-
militarised zone.
The great temptation, not easily re-
sisted by optimistic military sources in
Saigon, is to say that the Communists
are about to make one final mighty
effort as a preliminary to negotiations.
According to this view, the battle of
Khe Sanh will crown the winter-spring
offensive that has seen the Viet Cong
fighting aggressively almost along the
whole length of the country.
The nub of this optimistic view is
that the Khe Sanh offensive is not proof
of Hanoi’s abiding military strength
but rather a final desperate effort
against impossible odds.
It is incontestable that the Com-
munist troops are taking stunning losses.
They have serious supply problems, and
they cannot recruit enough new soldiers
locally in the South.
They are slowly losing control over
the population, largely because peasants
will no longer willingly stay in Viet
Cong areas that are frequently shelled
A Marine victim of the Khe Sank
fighting


and bombed. There is plenty of evidence
of war weariness in the communist
ranks. It is plausible that the failure of
the tremendous military effort that
began last November may be the last
straw for many Viet Cong if it brings
victory and peace no nearer.
But this theory is also partly based
on a way of assessing the war’s progress
that is possibly very different from
Hanoi’s. It is best described as the Dien
Bien Phu argument, and it seems to
affect much American military thinking
from General Westmoreland downward.
According to this, the communist
troops will never be able to achieve a
Dien Bien Phu victory at Khe Sanh or
anywhere else, because America is both
immeasurably more powerful and per-
sistent than France was in 1954. Ergo,
Hanoi cannot win.
However, there is no real evidence
that General Giap is trying to relive
his old triumph. Instead, the battle of
Khe Sanh, if and when it happens, can
be seen as perfectly fitting the strategy
of protracted but aggressive warfare
that Hanoi has tried to follow since
1965.
The 5000-strong Marine garrison of
Khe Sanh, some of it occupying the
tops of bleak and nameless hills, is com-
pletely cut off by road and has to be
supplied by air when the monsoon
weather allows. It is a sitting target for
the 20,000 North Vietnamese, armed
with 152 mm. artillery, as well as mor-
tars and rockets.
There are also elements of two more
North Vietnamese divisions to the west
along the demilitarised zone, and to
counter this combined threat some
35,000 Marines, almost half the total
American Marine strength in the coun-
try, have been moved to this area.
If Giap has a bit of luck and plays
his cards right, he could do a lot of
damage, though his own losses would
certainly be heavy. But he has accepted
this ever since he opened the “front”
along the demilitarised zone in 1966.
Salvaged material from the Thule crash
held on a stick in case of radioactivity
In return, he has created a running sore
for the Americans.
The Marines have proportionately
lost many more men than any other
unit in Vietnam, and most of those at
the demilitarised zone. Not surprisingly,
the area has become the symbol of all
that Americans hate most about this
war.
Certainly Khe Sanh is related to
Hanoi’s present diplomatic offensive.
All Hanoi’s military moves have politi-
cal motives. If Giap does well it could
increase pressures to start talks, always
supposing that is what Hanoi wants.
But it would be most unlike the North
Vietnamese to risk everything on one
throw. Hanoi still seems to have the
political will for a protracted war. The
months after Khe Sanh should show if
it also has the matching military
capacity.
Thule, Greenland
Nuclear accidents
THE LOSS of four hydrogen bombs at
Thule, in Greeland, last week was the
fourteenth “nuclear accident” suffered
by the United States in the past ten
years.
Elements of mystery still attach to
some of these, mostly unpublicised,
occurrences.
The first was on February 5, 1958,
when a 847 bomber jettisoned part of
a nuclear weapon after a midair col-
lision. The eighth—and most myster-
ious occurred on January 24, 1961,
when a 852 crashed near Seymour Air-
port base in North Carolina. One
hydrogen bomb floated down on its
parachute and became suspended in
a tree. Another one is still reputed to
be buried deep below a field. In the
nearby town of Goldsboro they still talk
about the “Air Force hole.” “They said
they’d lost a seat, but they dug a hole
big enough to bury 1000 automobiles,”
locals say.
Reputable researchers into nuclear
accidents believe that this crash was
only one switch away from a nuclear
explosion. It is said four out of the
five arming switches were activated
during the crash and that only one
switch held, so saving the United States
from detonating a hydrogen bomb over
its own territory. Since then a new,
highly secret, system of switches has
been installed in all hydrogen bombs.
It is only fair to add that the Pent-
agon scoffs at this story and denies
that the United States has ever lost
an H-bomb. Of course, they may have
lost nuclear warheads. It has always
been thought that when the U.S. sub-
marine Thresher sank in the Atlantic
in 1963 she took with her Polaris mis-
siles with nuclear warheads.
But the first accident about which
we can be really certain of the facts is
the crash that occurred on January 17,
1966, between a 852 and a KCI3S
tanker 30,000 ft. above the village of
Palomares in south-east Spain. Four
hydrogen bombs were involved. They
all came down by parachute, but at
least two of the parachutes were on fire.
These two bombs hit the ground hard,
the casings split, and radioactive
material was released.
Hydrogen bombs come in various
sizes the one fished up off Palomares
was a cylinder about 12ft. long and Ift.
in diameter. But they all have two main
components the explosive which
depends on fusion (heavy hydrogen in
some form) and the atom bomb trigger
which depends on fission. The radio-
active hazards of unexploded H-bombs
derive from the trigger, which is
essentially an A-bomb, consisting of
wedges of plutonium arranged in a
sphere, surrounded by charges of TNT.
The bomb’s safety devices are built
into the electrically controlled detona-
tors for the TNT charges. If a bomb
is dropped in anger, all these charges
are detonated simultaneously (a very
difficult technical trick), which drives
the plutonium wedges in to form a
“critical mass” for a nuclear chain
reaction.
Some of the bomb’s safety devices
cut the electrical circuits between the
TNT charges (there may be more than
40 of these), preventing simultaneous
detonation, thus making a fission ex-
plosion impossible. But the shock of
a bomber crash may set off some of
the charges, cracking open the bomb
casing and scattering radioactive
plutonium around.
Unlike fallout from a nuclear ex-
plosion (which gives off penetrating
beta and gamma radiation), plutonium
gives off heavy, relatively slow-moving
alpha particles (two protons plus two
neutrons), which can be stopped by a
layer of polythene—or by skin. As
long as it is not inhaled or eaten,
therefore, it is relatively harmless and
easy to manage. But inside the body
plutonium is highly toxic, and its radia-
tion can be highly damaging.
But one thing is now certain: the
U.S. must recover the bombs lost off
Thule. Politically they cannot afford
to let them lie there, seeping radio-
activity, even if it is relatively harm-
less alpha radiation. But more impor-
tant, they cannot contemplate the
slightest risk of any non-nuclear nation
coming along with a competent salvage
crew, lifting the bombs and so joining
the nuclear club.
Laos
Jungle listeners
The Pathet Lao, with open help from
North Vietnam, have launched their
first major dry-season offensive in Laos
in two years. By Laotian estimate the
North Vietnamese have recently in-
creased their forces campaigning in


Laotian refugees evacuated from Nam Bac before advancing communist forces
Laos from 25,0Q0 to 40,000. The com-
bined communist forces have now
begun to push Laotian Government
troops back from positions they have
taken in the past 18 months. Last month
the Communists carried out a number
of raids to gather rice and supplies.
Then they captured the airstrip at Nam
Bac. Last Wednesday they took the
village of Nam Nga, only 35 miles
north of the royal capital of Luang
Prabang.
Two weeks ago two ancient Russian-
made biplanes strafed a remote Govern-
ment outpost in the north-east, and two
others were observed in the vicinity.
Two of the planes, said to be flown
by North Vietnamese pilots, were
downed by machine-gun fire. They
were An-12s, also known as Colts, a
utility aircraft design dating from 1947.
At the same time elements of the North
Vietnamese 316th division, which had
crossed over from Dien Bien Phu, drove
2000 Laotian soldiers out of strategic
points in the Nam Bac valley and
seized the airstrip and the village of
Nam Bac; this battle may turn out to
have been the first approach to Luang
Prabang, 60 miles aw r ay. After several
days, retreating Lao troops were rescued
from the valley by American-made heli-
copters of the Laotian Air Force. It was
the biggest Lao defeat since the Com-
munists’ 1965-66 dry-season offensive.
American Government analysts say
the current communist drive follows the
pattern of the normal dry-season offen-
sive, beginning as the rice crop is
harvested. The North Vietnamese
objective is only guessed, but appears
to be partly to protect the Ho Chi
Minh trail against incursions by Laotian
forces as the dry-season traffic to South
Vietnam grows in volume, partly to
gather rice and supplies for the Pathet
Lao and the communist forces in South
Vietnam, and partly to help the Pathet
Lao won back lost ground. Only the
pessimists think it is the first step of a
major offensive to crush the Laotian
forces.
Prince Souvanna Phouma has con-
tinued to oppose any foreign inter-
vention in Laos, while denouncing
North Vietnam’s invasion. He will not
even allow American, South Viet-
namese, or Thai troops to take up
blocking positions athwart the Ho Chi
Minh trail in an extension of the
“McNamara line” across northern
South Vietnam. But he does encourage
the United States to bomb the North
Vietnamese wherever they can be found
along the trail. This bombing campaign
is now at its most intense, making use
of aircraft diverted from North Viet-
namese targets by bad weather. To
increase the effectiveness of the inter-
diction campaign, the Americans plan
to drop thousands of sensing devices
along the infiltration routes. These gad-
gets will transmit notice of any move-
ment to waiting aircraft which will then
attack the intruders with bombs and
Gatling-gun fire. If the McNamara line
withstands the siege of Khe Sanh, the
North Vietnamese ought to find the job
of supplying their forces in South Viet-
nam far more dangerous in the coming
months.
Wales
Growing up Welsh
HOW WELSH is Wales? Not very,
according to figures in the Gittins re-
port on Welsh primary schools issued
this week, although the members of
the council which compiled the report
would like to make it a lot more so.
One area in which the British Govern-
ment does give some acknowledgement
to Welsh national feeling is in educa-
tion. Wales has a Central Advisory
Council for Education, which has just
issued this report on the lines of the
English Plowden report which came out
a year ago. A difference is that the
Gittins report is in two volumes, one
for each language.
The report shows, from a survey
carried out among parents, that 12 per-
cent of them preferred to speak Welsh;
11 percent could speak Welsh but pre-
ferred English; two percent were bilin-
gual and had no language preference;
and 75 percent were wholly English-
speaking. Thirty-one percent of all
parents consulted would like their chil-
dren to speak Welsh; 27 percent were
against it; the rest did not care. The
report devoted only one pious sentence
to the difficulties of children growing
up in city slums. It is in these areas
that fewer people—only seven percent
of parents —speak Welsh and in these
areas that the future for children speak-
ing Welsh is more difficult.
The council, which compiled the
report under the chairmanship of Pro-
fessor Gittins, deliberately ignoring the
anti-Welsh sector of the population,
determined that there is “an urgent
problem in persuading those parents
who are indifferent that there are
advantages in learning Welsh.” It pro-
posed that the advantages should be
made concrete by creating vast num-
bers more teaching jobs for which the
speaking of Welsh is a prerequisite.
The main recommendation of the re-
port is that a “fully bilingual primary
education” should be established
through Wales.
One member of the council argued
that the English language should be
discriminately excluded from the junior
forms of certain schools, especially in
the areas where English is the only
useful means of communication.
Professor David Marsh, of Notting-
ham, having been a bilingual Welsh
child, suggested that he, and most of
his colleagues, “would not favor using
primary education as a means of
achieving the aims of nationalism.” He
mentioned the “damage” done to in-
dividuals in Ireland by compulsory
teaching of Irish. He pointed out that
the council opposes the introduction
of young children to the French lan-
guage on the grounds that “we wish
to ensure that the teaching of Welsh
is not impaired by experiments in this
direction.”
Professor Marsh more strenuously
criticised the report because, he said,
he regarded the children of the urban
poor as less important than Welsh
nationalism. He said: “I find it hard
to believe that most Welshmen, who
are well known for their sympathy for
the deprived and underprivileged, would
be so parochial as to give precedence
to language if they had to make a choice
of that kind.” But parochial is just
what extreme nationalism tends to be.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
The havoc and uncertainty
of Arbitration
AT A TIME WHEN severe inflation-
ary pressures are developing in the
economy, it may look odd that the
consumer price index should show a
relatively small rise. For the December
quarter the capital cities average was
up .3 percent, a very moderate rise
when compared with the September
quarter’s 1.4 percent.
The cause of the moderation in the
rate of price increase was perversely
enough the intensification of the
drought in southern Australia. This led
to a considerable forced sell-off of
sheep and cattle for slaughter, pushing
meat prices down. In Adelaide they
fell a full one percent and in Mel-
bourne half a percent. Without these
freak falls, the index of consumer
prices would have shown a rise of .9
percent during the quarter. In the
future, meat prices are certain to leap-
frog back up above their previous
levels.
Apart from food, all items in the
index rose during the December quar-
ter. This was a reflection of continu-
ing cost pressures on the economy. The
years 1967 and 1968 saw three national
wages cases, all of which granted wage
increases in excess of any possible pro-
ductivity gains, and which, therefore,
must put cost pressures on prices. Now,
1968 seems bound to see at least a
continuation of this pressure, if not
an aggravation.
The uncertainty arises from the new
work-value system the Arbitration
Commission has introduced with such
a bang. The Commission seems to
have designed its metal trades decision
to cause the maximum destructive
impact. If it intended mainly to bring
award rates up to market rates, by
having over-award payments absorbed,
it would surely have framed its deci-
sion in terms of the new minimum
rates of pay. Instead, it framed it in
terms of an “increase,” naturally rais-
ing the expectation among metal
trades employees that they would get
the increase they were “awarded.” It
framed its decision to suit the militant
unionists who argue that proposals to
absorb over-award payments amount
to doing the worker out of his due.
The Commission also maximised the
extent of the ensuing disputes about
“flow-on” by making the rise such a
huge one.
The truth seems to be that the Arbi-
tration Commission is steadily losing its
nerve. Charged with arbitrating indus-
trial disputes, it is increasingly creating,
by its decisions, far greater disputes than
it started out with. At the same time it
is having a thoroughly disruptive effect
on the economy—through the strikes it
is provoking and through the pressures
its decisions put on costs.
It is known in Canberra that the new
Government is highly concerned at the
behaviour of the Commission in recent
cases. Senior Ministers have come to
preface almost all their statements
about the future of the economy with
phrases like “if the Arbitration Com-
mission returns to its senses . . .” and
“as long as the Arbitration Commission
does not wreak too much havoc . . .”
Some of the blame for the current
situation must, however, lie with the
Government itself, which has been weak
and inconsistent in its submissions to
the Commission, Treasury and the
Labor Departmeht have been con-
stantly at odds with each other over
the appropriate course to urge on the
Commission. The transfer of Sir Henry
Bland from the head of the Labor
Department to Defence is a welcome
change for wages policy. For the new
head of Labor, Dr. Cook, is known to
be far more sympathetic with Treasury’s
economists than Bland. With the two
departments seeing eye to eye, the
Commonwealth should be able to devise
a far more coherent approach to wages
issues in the future.
Interest rates
Some portents of
tight money
FROM NOW ON business may have
to reckon on a tightening of money
here, not so much because this is sea-
sonally a period of contraction in bank
advances, but more because the com-
plex of influences operating on interest
rates portend a rising trend. A contrac-
tion of capital inflow seems more than
likely, and this will put more pressure
on locally generated supplies. To
temper local economic winds to less
clement overseas forces, the generally
stretched position of bank lending,
Sir Henry Bland. .. a welcome change
which has been encouraged by the
monetary authorities over the past year
or more and which has been extended
further in December, will have to be
corrected. Bank worries about a hard
core of rural borrowing crystallised in
very broad hints before Christmas that
some reduction is required.
But this isn’t going to be easy; while
drought lending has been contracting
slightly in some areas, it has recently
been rising in others. Like Government
assistance to farmers affected by sterling
devaluation, lending to get them
through droughts may well start off
on a temporary basis, but with the
passage of time can look awfully per-
manent.
As well as all these possible influ-
ences bearing on interest rate possibili-
ties here it would seem that the Gov-
ernment’s demands on the loan market
will be much bigger than last year and,
without nearly as much help coming
from the banks, more favorable terms
may have to be offered to get them
supplied. Any doubts whether loan re-
quirements of the States will continue
on their escalating course will, of
course, be resolved when the Premiers
take on Senator Gorton and his Treas-
urer for the first time at the meeting,
now put back to March, in Canberra.
A further levering force behind interest
rates is apparent in the more than
even chance that companies will be
seeking considerably more money in the
market this year (the banks can hardly
be as generous to them as in 1967)
in circumstances where, especially if
the heat is taken off industrial activity
by cautious Government economic
policies, industrial equity yields may
well be rising or at least on the turn
after their general decline in 1967.


THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: As at December 31, Australia’s
overseas reserves had fallen to $1092.3 million —their lowest
level since March, 1962’5, $1075 million; the reserves lost a
net $lO6 million in the six months to December, including
devaluation’s $ll3 million.
The output of heavy industry showed some improvement
in December’s production statistics; all sections of consumer
durables fell back.
Consumer prices (the capital cities index) rose by only
0.3 percent in the December quarter, against the September
quarter’s 1.4 percent; lower food prices were responsible for
the entire December drop.
For the markets: In keen demand over most of the
week, metals and oils tended to withdraw toward the close
on Australian share markets; industrials, on the contrary,
were posting small gains.
Equities again went up strongly in London’s broad
advance; institutions and unit trusts are buying actively . . .
After midweek retreats, some good business news lent Wall
Street a rather better air on Friday.
For companies: BHP-Esso proclaims that the Kingfish
field (offshore Gippsland) “may be classified as potentially
a major oilfield”; the partnership intends to revise upward
its ' forecasts of oil production made in November . . .
Directors of Ampol Exploration believe “a dividend can be
paid from its 1968 profit,” thovigh won’t yet predict the rate;
another “most attractive” structure has been indicated south
of Barrow Island.
Iron-ore producer Hamersley Holdings report net earnings
of $9,364,484 for its first full year to December 31, to give an
.earning rate of 18.7 percent; full accounts will be available
on March 4 . . . Higher nickel assays come from Great
Boulder’s Mount Martin field in Western Australia ... Far
less certain appear to be drilling results from Metal Explora-
tion’s Greenvale (Queensland) nickel deposit and its Cool-
gardie (W.A.) area, too . . . The 1967 year saw lower lead,
zinc, and silver outputs from CRA’s Zinc Corporation; New
Broken Hill produced slightly less lead and silver, but more
zinc; revenue of North Broken Hill, at $9,375,000, stayed
much the same for the six months to December, aided by
better silver sales . . . Mount Morgan’s first half yielded
“substantially lower” profits; the 10 percent interim remains
. . . Higher half-year earnings allow Peko-Wallsend’s interim
to go from 9 to 11J percent, suggesting a 22\ percent annual
rate.
Less tax and 4.5 percent more sales (in value) sent Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers’ half-year profits up by
$1,439,538 to $5,338,372; the interim payment stays at 3£
percent . . . Doubled earnings of Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills, also for the December half, at $1.9 million, derived
from much greater sales and higher prices.
Retailer G. J. Coles avoids figures, but advises “good”
increases in both sales and profits for the December half.
The financiers’ half-years are coming up buoyantly . . .
Associated Securities, first on the line, pushed earnings up by
29.2 percent to $1,112,729 on outstandings up a net 24
percent . . . Custonj Credit secured an 11 percent advance
to $1,887,730, with gross receivables up by $9.7 million to
$203.1 million ... A 14.2 percent improvement, to
$3,489,474, was made by Australian Guarantee Corporation
after gross receivables put on 12.6 percent to reach $332.9
million.
Australian Motor Industries is achieving higher sales and
profits.
MEN AND MATTERS
EIGHT YEARS BACK, when Robert
A. Dunn was 30, he started Dunn Air
Conditioning Pty. Ltd. on his own in
South Melbourne. This year his turn-
over will be well in excess of $2 million,
counting in that of the offshoots he runs
as subsidiary companies in Queensland
and Sydney. To this young business
tyro, with such persistent success and
now another batch of orders for the
supply of air-conditioning units to
Hamersley’s sites at Mt. Tom Price
and Dampier under his belt, it is a
puzzle why the profits of public air-
conditioning companies seem to go up
and down like yo-yos. All told, his
firm’s Hamersley orders are worth more
than $1 million. If this managing dir-
ector didn’t put it precisely, his firm
is now about the biggest supplier of
air-conditioning equipment in the
country. It also has a growing export
business to 1 South-East Asia (it air-
conditioned the Australian pavilion at
the Thailand exhibition and got good
orders out of it) and around the Pacific,
where Dunn says New Zealand is a
particularly hard nut to crack.
Dunn wasn’t exactly a novice at the
air-conditioning game when he launched
his own firm in 1960. His engineering
background was solid, with diplomas
in mechanical and electrical on studying
at Brighton (where he was born and
now lives with his wife and two chil-
dren) and Footscray Technical Schools;
he attributes a lot of his firm’s success
to sticking firmly to the highest engin-
eering principles. As well, there was
the know-how he acquired at Chrysler
Airtemp in, Adelaide (he now distributes
their units) and at various air-
conditioning plants in America (which
leads the way in air-conditioning, he
says). Earlier he did a cadetship with
the State Electricity Commission of
Victoria.
IT’S REMARKABLE how many
notable public figures today launched
themselves on the merciless economic
circumstances of the depressed early
1930s — such people as Sir Ian McLen-
nan and Sir Archibald Glenn (who has
“done it again” in getting a big stake
in CSR Chemicals for ICIANZ).
Those two are as well known in Sydney
and other State capitals as they are in
their native Melbourne, not only
because the PR setups in the companies
hardly miss a trick but also because
they’re naturals as national industrial
leaders. Another Melbourne University
product of the leaden ’thirties is Mr.
C. D. Kemp, roughly of the same
vintage as his fellow Scotch collegians,
who in his rather too unassuming ways
has been directing the Institute of
Public Affairs since its foundation about
24 years ago, but not before learning
Robert Dunn
C. D. Kemp
the tricks of the industrial game along-
side the redoubtable Sir Herbert Gepp.
Melburnians are as accustomed to
looking for Mr. Kemp’s light under a
bushel as they are to reading his words
of wisdom on the passing economic
scene in the various IPA publications.
But if inate shyness has deterred him
from projecting himself in the public
spotlight these many years, this is not
the case with David, his son, who came
down from the University of Melbourne
with a law degree a few years ago after
presiding over the fortunes of the
Liberal Club. Now a fully fledged bar-
rister, David Kemp took on Mr. Russell
Prowse, of the Bank of N.S.W., and
Dr. Jim Cairns, two formidable oppo-
nents, on the Melbourne TV program
“Fighting Words” recently on the whys
and wherefores of the Common Market.


THE
CROESUS
TOUCH
Testing times
for our
built-in growth
BY J. C. HORSFALL
AUSTRALIA IS NOT short of faith
in the strength of its self-propelling
growth devices. If Mr. Charles Moore,
president of the National City Bank
of New York, is right in forecasting
deflation around the world, as a result
of the U.S. decision to lop up to three
billion dollars a year from its balance
of payments deficit, this faith is going
to be put to a much more serious test
than has so far been officially or other-
wise acknowledged here. The nearest
anybody has got to a cold, realistic
view of 'the possibilities ahead is Mr.
McEwen at the Country Party Con-
ference in Canberra last week, but even
he still seemed to be pretty confident
that no back-tracking would be needed
on the promised payouts to the market-
ing boards to compensate them for the
loss of income consequent on sterling
devaluation, something intimately re-
lated to the containment exercises we
face if the U.S. carries out its balance
of payments program.
Before looking at some of the pos-
sible effects the latter may have on us.
it may be useful to go back to the
crucial meeting of finance ministers
and central bankers in London last
August, when the plan to supplement
world liquidity by the creation of
gratuitous additional drawing rights on
the International Monetary Fund was
agreed on (the scheme was subse-
quently endorsed by the IMF at Rio
de Janeiro, but its implementation de-
pends on ratification by member
governments; it is not expected to come
into operation until 1969 at the
earliest). At the London meetings the
French, and some other European
Governments, argued against such a
scheme on several grounds, including
that it was unnecessary so long as the
U.S. kept running balance of payments
deficits on the scale of recent years.
They pressed this view into the terms
of agreement on the plan by making
any actual issue of the new drawing
rights dependent on a majority of 85
percent of the IMF’s 'total voting
power (only 80 percent backing is
required on most IMF issues). This, in
effect, gives both the United States and
the Common Market countries (if they
vote in a bloc) an absolute veto.
There’s no doubt about the U.S.
Treasury’s aggravation on this score
and I would think it very probable
that the main reason behind its recent
decision to cut its balance of payments’
deficit is a strong desire to call the
Europeans’ bluff. If by next year it has
succeeded in its intentions, it stands
a far better chance of getting them to
play ball on the new IMF quota
scheme. Incidentally, the scheme has
been described by Mr. Fowler, the U.S.
Secretary of the Treasury, as the
greatest advance in international mone-
tary affairs since Bretton Woods, in
1944, though it still falls a lot short of
the International Currency Union pro-
posal put up by Lord Keynes at those
historic meetings.
The big question for us, however, is
what happens here while the U.S.
deficits are being cut back and there is
no substitute from the IMF to fill the
gap in international liquidity, nor, for
that matter, an increase in the price of
gold (as recommended by Mr. Moore
and which the U.S. Treasury has so
sternly set its face against, not only
through its action to stop the drain on
gold through balance of payments
deficits, but also by the extra tax slugs
U.S. Treasury's Fouler... counter-
bluff
announced last week). When the U.S.
containment measures are coupled with
Britain’s, also involving stronger domes-
tic deflationary action and big curbs in
overseas spending and investment (but
not as yet, strange to say, that of the
portfolio variety), it seems pretty
obvious that we’re going to feel some
significant adverse repercussions on our
balance of payments which could hardly
fail to be reflected in the domestic
economy.
Perhaps in the shortish term the
most that we need to fear is a fairly
marginal reduction in the resources that
will be available to the economy, but,
looking further ahead, at the very least
the prospect should prompt a rethink-
ing of the expansionary line which has
been the feature of Mr. McMahon’s
treasurership over the past eighteen
months or so. One’s own feeling is
that the repercussions on our balance of
payments will emerge fairly slowly, pos-
sibly more from the pervasive effects of
the U.S. and Britain’s measures on world
trade and commodity prices than in
sizable cuts in our capital intake from
these and other countries. (Europe won’t
be much of a capital source for us, with
the U.S. banning its own capital invest-
ment there.)
Certainly, we can’t now expect as
much capital as we had last year, either,
but it must be remembered that much
of U.S. and U.K. investment here is-
from retained profits from the enter-
prises operating in this country and also
that these have a happy knack of jump-
ing hurdles placed in the way of capital
provision from their own countries. As
well as that, Australia is such a good
prospect for international capital these
days that, whatever governments say it
must not do, a lot of it will still find
ways and means to get here. If, over the
next few years, we have to reckon on a
reduction in the overseas resources
available to us from trading and capital,
this would seem to require a rather
more disciplined attitude in industrial
relations not that we can’t afford a
strike or two, rather that any drift into
industrial anarchy would be intolerable
in present circumstances, like cutting
our own throats. Nor is it a time for
governments to continue on their reck-
less increases in expenditure. Again it
could require some caution on the im-
migration front, but the drift back of
immigrants to their own countries seems
to be looking after that. More pertin-
ent to businessmen, however, are the
implications for interest rates, which
are discussed in a special note on page
35.
As a result of the slightly lower rate
of consumer-price increases in the
December quarter announced last week,
there’s better reason to expect that any
increase in interest rates that may de-
velop would be more effective as a
restraining force than looked likely
some months ago, when price increases
were running at the rate of about 5
percent a year (over the full calendar
year 1967 they rose 3.9 percent). If in
conjunction with a rise in interest
rates we also had a run-down of over-
seas funds, with its counterpart effect
of lowering liquidity in the banking
system here, the net repressive effect
on business activity would be con-
siderable, and repercussions might well
be felt throughout the employment
structure. Moreover, the problems for
economic policy would be the more
difficult if, despite Senator Gorton’s
intentions to rule off our defence com-
mitment in Vietnam at its present level,
the Government w r as obliged to pour
more resources into South-East Asia as
a result of Britain’s accelerated with-
drawal from the area.


Keeping Alive in Space: A report from General Dynamics
QUESTION: An astronaut in space
needs 11 pounds of water and two
pounds of oxygen a day to live. If you
seal him into a spaceship, how long
could just 11 pounds of water and two
pounds of oxygen last him?
ANSWER: Forever, if necessary.
The reason, of course, is that air and
water can be regenerated indefinitely,
providing that a total man-machine sys-
tem is properly organized.
Such a system is the heart of an ex-
perimental life-support facility which
General Dynamics has recently built for
the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. It is designed to take
care of the basic physiological require-
ments of four men in a zero-gravity
environment for a full year, with mini-
mal resupply once every three months.
Regeneration is a basic fact of nature
—nothing is ever really lost. The job is
done by the total biosphere of the earth,
its billions of cubic miles of atmosphere,
its millions of miles of earth and sea, its
This sealable structure contains the
prototype of a life-support system
which includes facilities to maintain
four men in space for a year.
thousands of species of animals, plants,
insects and bacteria.
Compressing even part of that system
to meet the requirements of men in
space is a capability that has developed
only recently.
Thef problem-weight:
General Dynamics has been involved
in the requirements of space travel for
almost a generation through its devel-
opment of the Atlas and Centaur space
vehicles. We’ve been working even
longer with the problem of sealed en-
vironments in the submarines we’ve
been building since 1900.
But the submarine problem is some-
what different. Drinking water and oxy-
gen can be produced directly from the
surrounding water—which, because of
its buoyancy, also makes weight a rela-
tively minor problem.
In space, weight, including supplies,
comes at an incredibly high premium.
Thirteen pounds of water and oxygen
per man per day for four men for 365
days adds up to almost ten tons of water
and oxygen.
One manned space platform now in
development will weigh approximately
25,000 pounds. Without regeneration
another 20,000 pounds of just water and
air would be needed.
New water from old:
To avoid carrying such excess weight,
the system General Dynamics put to-
gether for the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration ties water, air and
waste removal requirements into one
integrated system.
Exhaled carbon dioxide, humidity,
air contaminants, used washing water
and urine are filtered, absorbed, heated,
cooled, catalyzed and electrolyzed in a
constantly operating process to create
pure water and pure oxygen for reuse.
For water recovery in our system, we
chose an evaporative method as the
most efficient.
Excess vapor from the cabin air, used
wash water and urine are collected in
holding tanks and are drawn into wicks
by capillary action. At the other end of
the wick, water is evaporated into a
stream of warmed air. The contami-
nants are left behind in the replaceable
wicks. Condensed vapor moves through
a series of filters finally to return to a
central reservoir as pure water.
Regenerating air:
Air regeneration presents a more com-
plicated problem.
Normal air is a mixture of oxygen,
nitrogen, carbon dioxide, water vapor,
trace gases and contaminants. Exhaled
air contains less oxygen and is enriched
with carbon dioxide. On earth the con-
stant interchange between animals, at-
mosphere and plants consumes the
carbon dioxide and the contaminants
and supplies fresh oxygen.
In a sealed ship the oxygen would be
rapidly used up and the carbon dioxide
built to a poisonous concentration.
Moreover, new contaminants are con-
stantly being formed. At the end of
some Project Mercury flights, the cabin
air filter contained dozens of contami-
nants not present at takeoff. Some, such
as ammonia, can come from ordinary
chemical reactions to an astronaut’s
own perspiration.
Machinery now has to do the job
otherwise done by nature.
How it works:
In our “spaceship,” cabin air—the origi-
nal mixture, plus exhaled breath, excess
moisture from cooling systems and new
contaminants—is continually circulated
through a bank of equipment. A dehu-
midifier removes excess moisture. A


charcoal filter holds back some contami-
nants. A catalytic burner converts otheis.
And a separator screens out the carbon
dioxide. But the removal isn’t final.
The water wrung out by the dehu-
midifier, for instance, is added to the
central tanks for reuse. The carbon di-
oxide is moved to another chamber
where it is mixed with hydrogen at a
high temperature in the presence of a
catalyst. That reaction creates water and
pure carbon.
Techniques have not yet been devel-
oped to use the carbon, so it is simply
blown into a storage area. But the water,
collected through a porous plate, is
transferred to an electrolytic cell where
an electric current breaks it into hydro-
gen and oxygen.
The hydrogen is pumped back to fuel
the previous reaction in which the water
was formed. The oxygen returns to the
cabin air to be breathed again.
A separate problem is presented by
solid wastes. In a biological food sys-
tern utilizing algae or bacteria, these
wastes might fuel the growth process,
but now there is no use for them. Inter-
national agreements forbid the contami-
nation of space, so they cannot be jetti-
soned.
Solid wastes, therefore, are dehy-
drated into a powdery dry residue and
stored. In operating spaceships, this
may serve as additional shielding against
radiation or meteorites.
The work ahead:
The entire life-support system is the
most advanced yet developed and does
include, of course, much more than the
air and water regeneration loop.
Other facets are an electricity-gen-
erating system, mechanisms to circulate
gases and liquids, monitoring and con-
trol instrumentation, food preparation,
storage and other facilities.
Efficient regeneration of food is not
yet feasible. So dehydrated food will be
carried by the spaceship and resupplied.
All in all, we think the prototype is
close to what will be needed in space.
But as experimental equipment it’s still
somewhat heavy —over two tons alto-
gether. We expect the long period of
ground testing to be conducted by the
National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration to provide further guide-
lines for the design of much more com-
pact and lighter equipment.
General Dynamics is a company of sci-
entists, engineers and skilled workers
whose interests cover every major field
of technology, and who produce for
defense and industry: aircraft; marine,
space and missile systems; tactical sup-
port equipment; nuclear, electronic, and
communication systems; and machin-
ery, minerals and gases.
GENERAL DYNAMICS
One Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10020. U.S.A.
GD ’ 04 ©1967 General Dynamics


WANTED
COMMIES
WITH
ACCUMULATED
PROFIT
including companies
which have outlived
their usefulness
Immediate
cash settlement
can be arranged
QUESTER
PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE, Box 1472 V,
G.P.O. Brisbane 2 0501
SYDNEY 29 1451
MELBOURNE 51 1548
become
a successful
freelance
writer
Take the first step. Enrol with Stott’s,
Australia’s most respected technical
Correspondence college. Get expert,
personal guidance from Stott
instructors who know professional
writing inside and out. Learn how
to write stories and articles that
editors are buying today. Choose
from these modern home-study courses:
Short Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, Script Writing for Radio,
TV Script Writing, Poetry Writing.
Stotts
TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 383 George
St., Sydney. 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
45 Gilles St., Adelaide. 1130 Hay St., Perth.
FILL IN THIS COUPON & POST NOW
Please send me, free and without obliga-
tion, your new Literary Prospectus.
MR./MRS./MISS
ADDRESS
> understand that no sales representative
will call
SPECULATOR’S
DIARY
An enticement
to action
among the oils
IN MARCH THIS YEAR the word
“oil” will be a much bandied one. That
is the month when five hundred dele-
gates from all over Australia and the
rest of the world will converge on Mel-
bourne to give each other the good
oil on crude oil. The occasion is the
1968 conference of the Australian Pet-
roleum Exploration Association. It
looks, however, as if they won’t be the
only ones reflecting on the subject of
“black gold.” Already the word around
the market (for whatever it’s worth)
is that, from a trader’s point of view, oil
will be to ’6B what minerals were to
’67. And that’s saying quite a bit.
Nevertheless, opinion is that the
minerals market has been picked
cleaner than last Christmas’ turkey
and that the oil market is now the
only one which gives a chance of pick-
ing up cheap stocks and making a rea-
sonable profit. Looking at the price
highs and lows already quoted for this
year would tend to validate this. In
fact, the oil market looks downright
enticing. It is, however, as always, more
risky than its industrial or mineral
brothers. Still, if you want action and
a chance of reasonably quick profits it
is well worth consideration. Provided
you realise you are operating in a
sensitive market, and are selective in
your buys, a sortie or two into the
oils could be very rewarding.
It is in the hope that I’ll be re-
warded that I’ve entered this week. The
company that will do the rewarding, if
my figuring is correct, is Transoil. The
company started off the year at 13
cents and has been going up ever since.
It is now 23 cents and gives indication
of doing very much better. And so it
should, for the company has many ex-
citing aspects. First is its traditional
field of oil exploration. Like most other
oil companies in Australia, Transoil
has an interest in quite a series of ex-
ploration prospects in and around Aus-
tralia. Some of these are joint ventures
and some on farmout arrangements. All
stand a chance (though goodness knows
the odds) of hitting the jackpot. Second
is the company’s nine percent interest
in the one that did—Mereenie. This
field has reserves of oil at around the
300 million barrel mark, which, at U.S.
$3.50 per barrel, is a lot of loot. How-
ever, because of the heavy capital cost
of running a pipe from the field to the
coast, the company is going to first
test the wells over a prolonged period.
It is hoped that Mereenie oil can be
sold in the Alice Springs/Tennant
Creek area during the testing period,
and this possibility is currently being
investigated. Details should be soon
available. Mereenie is again interesting
for its large reserves of gas and con-
densate. With all the exploration work
now being carried out in Central Aus-
tralia, it is quite on the cards that
various mineral processing plants will
eventually be set up in the area. If so,
Mereenie fuel will be right on the door-
step with its “For Sale” sign out.
The third bull point for Transoil is
its coal. Right now the company is in
the midst of investigating deposits in
the Darling Downs, north-west of Too-
woomba. To date, seams of up to 10ft.
thick have been intersected, which
augurs well for the future. Lastly, but
probably the most exciting aspect of
the company’s development, is its find
of the glamor metal, uranium, in the
Mt. Painter area of South Australia.
So far millions of tons of uranium-
bearing breccias (a splintered or shat-
tered rock in layman’s language) have
been discovered. The job, now in hand,
is to evaluate the grades and to decide
whether the whole deal is economically
feasible or not. If it is you can bet that
Transoil’s prices won’t ever see 23 cents
again. All in all, considering what you
get for your 23 cents, Transoil looks
better than a David Jones’ red-letter
bargain (and probably cheaper, too). I
splurged and bought 5000.
This week I decided it was time I
cashed in a few profits and become a
bit liquid for a change. I sold off five
stocks in all. R. W. Miller lost $24,
Howard Smith earned $44, Kern Bros,
returned $127, Longreach came good
with $54, and Bowling Centre Holdings
gave the best deal of all with a profit
of $458. The net result of the selling"
spree was $659 in profit and $3418 in
hard cash.
BOUGHT
5000 Transoil $0.23 $1173
SOLD
200 R. W. Miller $1.23 $251
200 Howard Smith $3.65 $725
200 Kern Bros. $4.50 $BB2
400 Longreach $0.73 $286
10,000 Bowling
Centre Holdings $0.13 $1274
Despite all my efforts kitty is still
in the red—s3l9 in fact.
Shares Company Bougiht Share Price
200 Allied Mills 26/4/67 I*9 1.51
300 R'alta Holdings 25/7/67 .56 .45
300 William 'Adam's 17/0/67 2.12 1.93
200 Stegbar 17/8/67 1 46 1.55
200 Westral'ian 29/8/67 1.17 1 36
500 'Con'crete Ind. 30/8/67 .47 .37
300 Thiess 5/9/07 2 18 4.97
400 Trade Credits 20/9/67 1.19 1.08
300 Bennett & Woo'd 3/10/67 1.35 1.46
300 N/lex 3/10//67 .95 .95
350 'Hiliton Corp. 10/10/67 1.08 1.12
300 Email 17/10/67 .71 .68
'5OO Planet 10c pall'd 26/10/67 .27 .28
200 Hunter Douglas 2/11/67 2.35 2.48
500 James Wallace 15/11/67 .40 .35
200 BH'P 15/11/67 16.95 17 55
200 Bonds Industries 22/11/67 1.45 1.44
200 iLi.n'deman’s 27/12/67 3 82 4 15
400 'Mineral Deposits 2/1/68 3.75 4.15
100 King'lSlan'd Soheelite 18/1/68 555 6.40
5000 Transoi’l 24/1/68 .23 .23


WILD CAT PAGES
Brush up those interims
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
WARMING UP TO the interim-report
season, it’s probably as well to remind
ourselves that, even if a lot of interim
reports are by no means perfect, the
general run of them, thanks to the
good offices of the Stock Exchanges
and their strengthened regulations, are
a lot more informative than they used
to be in the bad old days.
Some are better at it than others, of
course. To some companies, speed is of
the essence in getting out these periodic
reports, and a few seem to overdo it in
this direction, such as Robert Hutchin-
son, whose company staff can’t have
had a New Year’s party for years. The
very least of requirements would seem
to give a profit statement, but here we
had G. J. Coles omitting one, as usual,
in the report the company put out
last week when announcing the main-
tenance of the interim dividend. True,
Coles indicated it has had “good” in-
creases in sales and profits in its latest
half-year (though no suggestion of
them being “buoyant,” as in the head-
line in the Melbourne “Herald”).
ANOTHER INTERIM report to
catch the eye last week was that of
Australian Motor Industries, but, like
Coles’ statement, profit figures were
notable by their absence, the company
being content to mention merely that
both sales and trading profits were up.
Think how misleading it would have
been if APM had made a similar state-
ment and left it at that, which, of
course, it was perfectly entitled to do
without going on to give all the other
valuable information to shareholders in
its half-yearly report. The very least
both AMI, which mentioned only
“trading” profit, and Coles, which
spoke even less concretely of “profits,”
should have done was to have talked
precisely of “net profit” and then given
the precise figures for it.
Any way, AMI, which got out of its
flat recession spin a year or two back,
now looks like going ahead quite
strongly, and knowledgeable buyers have
been quietly tucking away the shares
for a year or more at prices ranging
from as low as 46 cents early last year
to a recent top of 106 cents, from
which profit-taking has pulled them
back to 99 cents. Sad to say, after once
being almost all owned locally, 49 per-
cent of the shares in this company
(which were selling for a. song a few
years ago) is now held overseas, fol-
lowing recent capital moves. The latter
give the new Leyland-British Motor
Corporation group 29 percent, Toyota
Motor Co. (of Japan) and American
Motors (U.S.) 10 percent each.
With this line-up, investors should
forget the bad old days at AMI. What’s
more, even if the interim report said
that rising costs affected profits of the
Dandenong manufacturing plant in the
latest half year, the four-times earnings
cover for the 10 percent payment for
1966-67 (the interim this year has been
maintained at that annual rate) was
most impressive. Anybody wanting to
take their chances in the only motor
manufacturer here offering locals a
stake in its equity could well find AMI
a rewarding investment in the coming
years, with the Yanks, the Brits, the
Japs, and ourselves all with a bit in it.
But, please, AMI, brush up your in-
terim reports.
THE CHARTIST furnishes the follow-
ing further comments:
BHP: This stock now shows promise
of a further upward move to a short-
term target of about $23.00.
King Island Scheelite: This stock has
now achieved the original target of
about $5.20 and is still holding a well-
established uptrend. There is a possi-
bility of a further move to approxi-
mately $7.00.
ON THE OIL FRONT the biggest
news this, past week was Esso-BHP’s
confident description of Kingfish as
“potentially a major oilfield.” Success
in the Kingfish B-l well will necessitate
a revision of the forecast crude reserves
in Gippsland offshore areas. Next move
is a step-out well, Kingfish C-l, four
miles inshore and west of B-l.
Planet’s Warrinilla No. 4 in the
Bowen Basin was at 2849 feet on Janu-
ary 23, within an estimated 1500 feet
of the 400 feet thick ®il and fresh water
sand section encountered in the No. 3
well, which did not flow under test.
In Central Queensland waters, Aus-
tralian Gulf Oil and AOG’s Aquarius
No. 1 was at 345 feet.
Wapet’s Sandy Point No. 1 well, in
the southern portion of Cape Range,
was drilling at 9480 feet. The deep
exploratory well, Observation Island
No. 1, on the eastern side of Exmouth
Gulf, was coring at 5305 feet.
Burmah’s Ashmore Reef No. 1 well
was secured for rough weather caused
by cyclone Bertha. It was at 9789 feet,
after drilling through interbedded vol-
canics and sediments. Target is 12,500
feet. London support for the Woodside
fully paids is still evident.
Delhi-Santos is in the process of mov-
ing its rig to the site of the new test
well, Tingana No. 1, 62 miles south
of the Moomba gas field.
Oil, Search shares were much sought
after, although it is not engaged in any
drilling program. Presumably Phillips
Uramu No. 1 strike well, which blew
out and flowed gas last month, is still
infecting interest in Oil Search.
The Chartist says:
BROKEN HILL SOUTH LIMITED has already been recommended about the
$3.00 price level, in November, 1966, for a move to $5.50 and then $5.80, which
was in actual fact exceeded by the rise to $6.10 in November of last year. The
current consolidation pattern suggests a continuance of a 300 percent intermediate
uptrend, to a target of approximately $ll.OO. Any rise on high volume above the
resistance level now formed at $6.10 would be a positive breakout from the
congestion area. Last sale price on 26/1/68 —$5.36.


Is Trendex Unfair?
Last April, Trendex challenged all comers to select 25 stocks which would
perform better, over the following six months, than 25 chosen from the
Top Listing in Trendex. There were hundreds of starters, but nobody
secured the $lOOO Award. So we have decided to issue the Challenge again.
How It Worked:
In the issue of sth May, 1967, Trendex published three lists
of stocks. The top group contained 42 stocks which Trendex
stated would give the best performance over the ensuing six
months. The bottom group contained 203 stocks (including
Leaders and public favourites) which Trendex considered
would perform very poorly. Between these was a third group
of stocks considered likely to give only a mediocre account
of themselves.
The challenge to the reader was for him to test his fore-
casting skill, by pitting his judgement against the application
of the Trendex principles upon which the tabulations were
based. Any person who could pick from the poorly rated list
a group of 25 stocks which would perform better over six
months than any 25 stocks which they could choose from the
Trendex favourite group, would become eligible for the Award.
The Award of $lOOO would go to the subscriber whose own
choices did better than the Trendex choices by the biggest
margin.
Was It Fair?
Entry was open to any Trendex subscriber amateur or
professional. Accountants, bankers, brokers, and financial
writers were free to enter, and many did so.
However, in order to win the Award, one had to outperform
Trendex. The table of 42 top selections had been chosen by
using the basic Trendex principles to forecast the likely price
performance of the stocks in the market. The poorly rated table
consisted of stocks whose chance of price rise was well below
average, as shown by Trendex principles.
Of course, one cannot use Trendex principles to forecast the
completely unknowable, such as bushfires, destructive hail
storms, some take-overs, and the like. A few stocks in the un-
favoured table did no better than expected. A few in the top
rated table did fail to perform quite so well as expected.
However, as a group, the top rated stocks left the others for
dead.
Was it fair, therefore, to expect anybody to win the Award,
with odds like this pitted against him? Indeed, most of the
entries came from newer Trendex subscribers. The older ones
had seen, over the years, that the Trendex stock forecasts
are usually right.
Be Fair to Yourself:
Trendex has been pointing out stocks for which rises were
pending, and also stocks for which declines were in the offing,
not just for six months last year but for the last seven years.
Trendex brought market action analysis to the Australian
investing public for the first time, when it began publication
in 1961. The Trendex principles of market action analysis, as
applied to share price forecasting, have been described in detail
in Trendex, and illustrated by copious examples. Their obvious
success has led to the methods being used today by quite a
range of amateurs and professionals. The educational pro-
gramme has succeeded. It has taken seven years, but the
scoffers are becoming strangely silent.
If you are not a Trendex subscriber, you are starting seven
years behind scratch. Is it fair, to yourself, to make it eight,i
or nine, or ten?
Perhaps you still just don’t believe that the clue to future
share price often lies in today’s market action. That’s not
surprising. Seven years ago, nobody in Australia did believe
it except our portfolio clients.
Be fair to yourself, start subscribing now.
Investment Portfolios:
The main business of this company is the management of
portfolios for investors, with emphasis on capital gain or
income to suit individual requirements. These clients are not
traders. They wish to hold those stocks which are safe invest-
ments with a good future. They see no point in holding senile
growth stocks of the past, or weaklings of the present, with
inferior future prospects. Our clients range from investment
companies and large superannuation funds, to family com-
panies, estates, and individuals.
Trading Profits:
For some time Trendex has featured not only the big Action
Table for the Investor, but also a weekly summary of stocks
with recommended action for Traders and Speculators. For
the convenience of those trader subscribers who wish to act
on Trendex principles every day in this fast market, we have
a Special Daily Service which provides positive buying and
selling recommendations for a small range of active trading
stocks. The Service is available by telephone, telegram, or mail.
What About That Award?
Yes, we are going to offer the Award of $lOOO again. Our
issue of Friday, 16th February, will contain the lists, so that
you may pit your forecasting skill against that of the Trendex
methods. Last day for entries will be Friday, 23rd February.
Entry is free, and open to any Trendex subscriber, without
reservation. Get your banker or broker to help you, if you wish.
TRENDEX & Co Pty Ltd (i»«. * vie.,
THE LEADER IN MARKET ACTION ANALYSIS
HEAD OFFICE: PEARL ASSURANCE HOUSE, 151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, PHONE 67 1309
SYDNEY OFFICE: CENTURY HOUSE, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, PHONE: 211 1434
□ Enclosed is remittance of $25 to cover one
year’s subscription to the weekly publication
TRENDEX. I understand you will send also,
without charge, your background book “Fore-
casting Australian Stock Prices with Trendex”.
All sent airmail in Australia and New Zealand,
without additional charge.
□ I wish to become a subscriber to your
Special Daily Trader Service. Please send
particulars to me.
□ Please send particulars of your Investment
Portfolio Management Service. I am interested
mainly in:
(a) Longer term capital gain □
(b) Short term capital gain □
(c) Capital gain plus income □
The approximate size of the portfolio or funds
to be invested is $
TRENDEX, G.P.O. Box 763, Melbourne, Vic, 3001
NAME
ADDRESS
POSTCODE'
Reduced from. Australian Financial Review, Jan . 26, 1968


ADVERTISING RATES
As from January 6, 1968, advertising
rates for Legal Notices are $1.20
per line for advertisements in a 20-em
column; 80 cents per line for advertise-
ments in a 13-em column.
Security analysis
Bradford Kendall: a heavy
engineer with growth
THE TERM “Profitless Prosperity”
seems to have been coined with the
heavy engineers chiefly in mind. With
substantial excess capacity as an end-
less industry curse, profit margins are
often paper-thin, even in good years.
Not all companies in heavy engineer-
ing have such a gloomy outlook, and
some companies in spite of industry
excess capacity do very well. One such
company is Bradford Kendall Limited.
In the folklore of this company, luck
was a major factor in getting the com-
pany started. Back in 1920 a group of
young Newcastle sports formed a syn-
dicate to race a horse called Jack
Findlay. The syndicate won something
like $BO,OOO real money in those
days and at least sufficient to start a
small steel-casting plant in Sydney in
1922. From then on it was sheer hard
work, good metallurgy, and good man-
agement which propelled the company
forward.
Take Bradford Kendall’s exciting
growth over the past four years, 1963/
1967, as a case in point. Total assets
have increased by 67.7 percent, ordin-
ary shareholders’ funds by 89.4 per-
cent, pre-tax profit by 677.6 percent,
and earned for ordinary by 403.8 per-
cent. An exhilarating development in-
deed! The company is said to show a
margin of net profit after tax to turn-
over of over 8 percent, which is very
high by the standards set by most Aus-
tralian companies in the metals indus-
tries. Some 1300 to 1400 people are
employed by this group.
The company has been export-con-
scious for over 30 years in fact,
since 1932. About 5 percent of annual
turnover is derived from the sale of
heavy mining equipment, mainly for
tin dredging in Malaysia and Thailand.
Bradford Kendall makes steel cast-
ings for use in railway transportation,
mining, earthmoving, and general in-
dustry. Products include wheels, bogies,
couplers, and miscellaneous castings for
railway rolling stock, manganese steel
lining plates for ball mills used in
cement works and mines, manganese
jaw faces for all sizes of gyratory and
jaw crushers, cast-steel top tumblers
and manganese steel bottom tumblers
for bucket dredges, cast-steel roller
paths and rollers, cast-steel gear wheels
and pinions, and so on. The company
also produces expendable products in
earth-engaging tools, which consist of
attachments to bulldozers, rippers,
shovels, draglines. The range is com-
prehensive, including excavator buckets
up to 15 cubic-yard capacity and a
complete range of blades, bits, and
teeth.
Bradford Kendall is today the
largest Australian commercial producer
of steel castings in volume, although it
does not produce the largest individual
steel casting in weight; the latter
honor goes to Commonwealth Steel
Co. Ltd. (A BHP subsidiary) and to
Vickers Ruwolt (a subsidiary of Vick-
ers Australia Ltd.), who have larger
capacity furnaces.
In terms of Bradford Kendall’s cur-
rent sales volume, castings for trans-
port are said to represent about 60 per-
cent of turnover, whilst mining as an
end-industry has about 15 percent,
earthmoving about 13 percent, and
general industry requirements about 12
percent. The company has diversified
within the industry, but never out of
it. Railway work means large-volume
orders, but it is by public tender called
once a year, and new business can easily
be won by another competitor. With
over a dozen competitors, some more
desperate than others, public tender
work is a little risky. The strength of
Bradford Kendall has been its ability
to build up a large growing business
supplying the mining and earthmoving
industries, and at the same time to keep
its general casting business down to a
comparatively small proportion of total
turnover.
One success was in the production of
the Griffin railway wheel. Up to 1963,
when Bradford Kendall commenced to
make railway wheels, Commonwealth
Steel was the sole Australian producer.
Comsteel’s rolled steel wheel has now
been challenged by BK’s Griffin wheel,
an American design which produces a
solid cast-steel wheel. About one-third
of all railway wheels in use in the
U.S.A. have been produced by the
Griffin Wheel Co., which is the largest
American producer of both cast-iron
and steel wheels. Comsteel is still Aus-
tralia’s largest producer of railway
wheels, but Bradford Kendall is earning
very nice profits from this venture.
BK is the only Australian producer
of steel castings to have a nationwide
group of foundries located in each of
the mainland States. From the original
Sydney plant, four additional foundries
were established —in Adelaide (1950),
South Fremantle (1952), Wodonga on
the Victorian side of the Murray Valley
border (1954), and Brisbane (1956).
Completing the chain of factories is a
steel fabricating shop and engineering
works in Sydney and a foundry in
Dunedin (New Zealand). The latter
foundry was acquired with the takeover
of Wilkinson Callon Ltd. in 1964.
The company has apparent advan-
tages over its competitors from its net-
work of State foundries, including pref-
erences given by some State Govern-
ments in favor of companies producing
within their own State borders, freight
advantages in reducing transport costs,
and, with a wider base, the company is
not hemmed in as much as other
foundries by immediate shortages of
skilled labor in any one locality. In
Western Australia, a State bursting with
prosperity from iron-ore and other
mineral developments, Bradford Ken-
dall’s only competitor in the production
of steel castings comes from the Had-
fields W.A. (1934) Ltd. group.
The Wodonga (Victoria) plant is a
model for decentralisation and has been
very successful. With substantial freight
concessions from the Victorian Rail-
ways, the company reports that it is
well satisfied with its experience in
decentralised country factories.
Overseas technical know-how ties are
held with Amsted Industries Inc., U.S.A.,
who hold about 10 percent of the equity
capital, also from General Steel
Industries Inc., U.S.A., and from
Electric Steel Foundry Co., U.S.A.
Amsted Industries is a holding company
both for American Steel Foundries,
which has had a technical link with
Bradford Kendall dating back to 1927,
and for the Griffin Wheel Co.
The company statistics are as
follows:
Values s'ooo
1963 1964 1965 1 9.66 1967
Ordinary capital 1168 1163 1459 1659 1659
Ord. s’holders funds 2530 '2652 3245 4026 4791
Total assets 5246 5528 6563 7442 8796
Pre-tax profit 210 379 751 1006 1633
Earned for ordm'arv 185 238 454 60S 932
Ord. dividend Tl 7 117 160 202 207
Earned for ord. to
s'holders furtds % 7 3 9.0 14 0 15.1 19.5
Dividend ipayout _ _
.ratio % '62 9 49.1 34 2 33.2 22.2
Proprieto'rshi'p
ratio % 43 6 48.3 49.0 54.1 54 4
Tax to pre-tax _ _
profit % <l2 4 3'6 9 99 4 39 5 42.9
Earn'ings .per s'hare *
.(cents) 12.'6 16.7 26.1 31 3 46.8
Dividend per sh'are *
(cents) 7.9 8.2 9 2 10.4 10.4
Share Prlices _ „
iHig'h Csl par) 1 69 1 70 2.10 2.25 3 50
Low 1.36 1 35 1.49 1.70 2.15-
* Adjusted
Over the five years 1963/1967 earn-
ings per share have grown from 12.6
percent in 1963 to 46.8 cents in 1967,
an increase of 271.4 percent. Dividends
per share rose from 7.9 cents to 10.4
cents over the same period, a rise of
31.6 percent. The return of earned for
ordinary to shareholders’ funds was a
high 19.5 percent in 1967, reflecting the
present stature of the company.
The Commonwealth Arbitration
Commission in a recent decision has
upset all calculations about the im-
mediate future profitability of com-


: .
■'
\
i
: ' i
'
>V:
f:
' :
. m
~
.
■'V
31 I
■
.
m
:
m
S' ■' . -'- ; ' - - ■- ■■ . ■
.
:
-
■ ■ ■
W> i .•>%' ®s£i , ' <-,2
2P?J
<c>
immmwmmtmmsm
%i
It’s only 50 years ago that Electrolytic
Zinc Company produced the first high
grade zinc in Australia now each
year Australia uses more zinc per head
of population than any other country
in the world. Around twice as much in
fact. In that time E.Z.'s experience,
its attention to product quality and
service, and its development of valuable
overseas markets have made it a great
earner for Australia and Australians.
E.Z. plans to keep it that way.
dOIUO
inoAHm
uraunumoa
Sllld IUIZ Z-H
t
t
A-Z High Grade Electrolytic Zinc (99.95 + %)
for galvanising, brass, zinc oxide, rolled zinc.
A-Z Special High Grade Electrolytic Zinc (99.99 + %)
for die casting alloys.
EZDA Zinc Die Casting Alloys
for pressure die castings.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC CO. OF AUSTRALASIA UNITED
390 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Zinc and Fertiliser Plants, Risdon, Tasmania. Mines, Rosebery, Tasmania.


Invest in
mmmm a § mem mm
DEBENTURE STOCK
t
Paid up capital
$25,000,000
/
2
0
FOR S YEARS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAIIABU
See Prospectus for full details. Prospectus and application
form available from:
• BROKERS - lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK
EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
ASK A.N.Zt FOR DETAILS
13348
CLEAN vs. SMUT
It is a fact that ten years ago, before the emergence of the great Australian Aff-
luence, people and places really did look cleaner. Today, our beaches, highways, parks
and populace appear to be on the losing end of the battle for cleanliness. But not
our office buildings. Certainly not office buildings that are cleaned and cared for by
Crothall. They wage a battle against dust, dirt and grime that is never ending. And
they are winning. Crothall people, Crothall materials and the Crothall system of
cleaning is a combination that cannot be beaten. For premium quality cleaning service
at less cost, contact Crothall & Co. (We’re in the Pink Pages)
2284/67
panies engaged in the metal trades.
Employers such as Bradford Kendall
were put in an impossible position by
the Commission, which, whilst granting
increases in the metal trades award
ranging from 10c to $10.05 a week
(the average increase for skilled work-
ers was $7.40 a week), invited em-
ployers to absorb the new award into
existing over-award payments. As many
skilled tradesmen in Sydney are re-
ceiving no less than $7 a week above
the award, no one needed to consult
a horoscope to know that union pres-
sure, industrial unrest, and general
widespread dissatisfaction by workers
would shatter the relative calm in
industrial relations if employers decided
to absorb the new award into existing
over-award payments. When employers
as a body decided to do just that, in-'
dustrial strife threatened, and there
were 29 strikes throughout the industry
in one recent week alone in New South
Wales. For the uninitiated, over-award
payments are in part a form of ransom
paid by employers to hold on to skilled
labor, which is in extremely short
supply.
To Bradford Kendall, the new award
affected its workforce mainly in New
South Wales, Victoria, and South Aus-
tralia, and to a much smaller extent
in Queensland. In Western Australia,
workers in the metal trades are gov-
erned by State awards, which have not
been affected. Bradford Kendall was
paying, in addition to the award, an
incentive bonus to all workers through-
out its plants, and in Sydney they were
paying an additional above-award pay-
ment as well. BK has decided to grant
the full increases in the metal trades
award, without any disturbance in the
level of over-award payments. The
company management bas taken the
view that it was utterly impossible to
do otherwise, without sacrificing in-
dustrial justice.
The new marginal awards to metal
workers cannot yet be gauged as to its
effective impact on company profit-
ability, but, assuming selling prices are
adjusted accordingly, there is no reason
to assume any likelihood of a serious
erosion in profit margins. A lot of
Bradford Kendall’s work for large
engineering projects is covered by rise-
and-fall variation clauses, which means
that increases in labor awards can be
passed on.
SUMMING UP:
As a New Year’s resolution, I would
recommend you to buy Bradford Ken-
dall now. The shares (at $2.82) are
currently priced to show a dividend
yield of 4.4 percent, with a price earn-
ings multiple of 6.1. Heavy engineering
stocks may be unpopular on the market,
but it is short-sighted on the part of
some investors to put a P/E ratio of
only 6 on a growth stock such as this.


Esanda
Limited
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase leasing and other finance operations.
FIRST CHARGE DEBENTURE STOCK
CURRENCY ISSUED AT PAR INTEREST
lO years 7°/o
8 years 6 3 /a°7o
6 years 6Va °/o
5 years 6Va °fo
4 years ...... G^o
3 years S 3 /a°/o
UNSECURED NOTES
CURRENCY
10
ISSUED AT PAR
INTEREST
7 Va °/o
7<?fe
G 3 U°/o
6 Vz °fo
6V*°/6
6«70
Interest per annum payable half-yearly
6 years
4
3
Applications can be accepted only on one of the forms of
application referred to in, and attached to, printed copies
of the prospectus which are available from
Members of Stock Exchanges
Any office of the E S & A Bank Ltd.
Esanda Limited
287 Collins Street, Melbourne
m
SB
Mining
The silver in Silver Valley
LAST YEAR THE old Tulloch silver
mine near Armidale was de-watered for
the second time in its fairly long his-
tory, this time by Silver Valley Uran-
ium Mines N.L. (which has no interest
in any uranium exploration). Prospect-
ing originally commenced in the Tul-
loch area about 1913, when a narrow
lode of rich silver was encountered.
Mining took place in a small way and
only small quantities of ore were raised
during the mine’s initial years. Some
of the earlier assays were quite phen-
omenal in 1918 20 tons of ore were
lifted which carried assays as high as
2200 ounces of silver per ton but at
that time only the higher grades were
worked due to very high charges for
treatment of the ore, which consisted
of antimonial sulphides of silver asso-
ciated with arsenical pyrites. This ore
was extracted from the original pros-
pecting shaft as the production shaft
was not begun until 1921.
Progress in the years ahead was fairly
slow, no doubt due to the falling silver
price during that period. (Silver fell
from 50 cents to 20 cents in the period
1920 to 1930.) By 1926 there was a
crushing plant and concentrator at the
mine, but after that the mine appeared
to have met some difficulties. According
to old reports, in the following year
the mine was let under tribute and was
de-watered. The reef, which had been
lost, was located again and drilling was
resumed. The actual reef was reputed
to be over 3ft. wide, providing a milling
ore containing 150 oz. of silver and 4dwt.
of gold per ton. The following year the
mine changed hands again and the new
owners were to erect a smelter and by
the addition of copper ore recover the
silver in the resulting matte. This plan
did not get very far and, although at
the mine’s deepest level of 300 ft. some
good ore was proved up, work ceased
from 1930 to 1935 due to the continued
low price of silver.
Over its life the recorded output
from the mine amounted to some 50,000
tons of ore averaging 200 ounces of
silver per ton, although there was pro-
bably more ore extracted than these
figures indicate. The actual vein of
payable ore dips very steeply. The
mining which occurred prior to 1930
was mostly confined to depths above
280 feet and the vein extends over a
length of two to three hundred feet.
This vein varied in width, but appeared
to have an average width of perhaps
twelve inches, giving the actual ore-
body a very thin but extensive shape.
The assays which Silver Valley has
taken of the lower depths have com-
pared well with earlier values, ranging
from 216 ounces per ton up to 563
ounces per ton at the 270-290 ft. levels.
The company is presently drilling the
lode beneath the old workings and this
hole is planned to intersect any pos-
sible downward extension of the ore
body at some 75 feet below the deepest
workings. Testing will also be made of
mineralisation parallel to the existing
orebody. ,
Should the company be successful in
finding, beneath the present working,
an orebody of similar dimension to the
previously worked-out area it would
be looking at a very rich, but perhaps
thin, vein of silver-bearing ore which
would have a length of perhaps a few
hundred feet. How deep and how wide
the actual vein would persist will only
be ascertained by drilling. At current


When there are two of you
which will it be?
Double dare?
*«
Double care?
Some people act as though they’re on a dare every
time they drive. Others wait till they’re out with some-
body to show how smart they can be. Are you one of
these? Or do you take extra care when there are
two of you?
Seat belts are the most effective protection you and
your passengers can have. GMH fit them, to strict
Australian Standards Association specifications, into
every car that they build. But they can’t put them
around you.
And that’s the point. We build safety into our cars
like the rugged ‘Aerobilt’ body, the precision steer-
ing and the special GMH 7-point safety package.
Standards you’ve come to expect over the years. But
it’s up to you to take advantage of them!
Why not buckle up . . . before you buckle down to
your driving?
w* *
Safety comes first with HOLDEN
(but remember... you’re in the driver’s seat)
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN' S
GMH
GENERAL MOTORi
hjOLDEN’S


Our
good old
cargo route
...gets a
great new
ending.
j
California
G
New York
Sydney
New York. And even that’s not the "end” unless
you want it that way.
From New York, we can provide cargo service
on to major Latin American markets. Or put
your shipment on one of our transatlantic flights
to 27 European markets.
It’s nice to know that when you start with Pan
Am you stay with Pan Am. No second carrier.
No divided responsibility. Nobody but Pan Am
personnel handles your goods all along the line.
Something else that’s nice to know: You’re with
the airline that knows air cargo best because we
carry more of it to more places than anyone else.
If you haven’t been specifying the carrier for
your exports, maybe it’s time to begin. (It’s
something to keep in mind on your import
orders, too.) Talk to your Freight Forwarder or
Pan Am Cargo Agent. Or call us.
Maybe our new “ending” is just the beginning
you need.
SYDNEY:
KINGSFORD-SMITH AIRPORT
67 1384
MELBOURNE:
SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL.
63 9077 ' I ■ ■ ■
World’s largest air cargo carrier
/VIVE
World’s most
experienced airline.
PA34 A


LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
This
Week's
Year
week
change
ago
Aluminium, ton
£ 226 2-3
—
£ 196
Copper w.b., ton
£ 606%
-t* t 9%
£ 450%
Gold, 02.
292/1
251/9%
i 92%
-£3-16
£ 78 15-16
206 d.
-la.
llUkd.
Tin .fcan
£ 1317
- £ 7
£ 1204%
Wolfram, un.'t
415/-
352/6
Zinc, ton
£ 110%
-£%
£ 100
Wheat, Au*t. ton
E 28*4
—
£ 26%
Linseed oil, ten
£ 123%
—
£ 68
Cocoa, 50 kilos
2B9/3
H,/-
227/9
—
—
22.1 5d.
Rubber, (b.
IP 7-16d.
-5-16d.
16 1-160.
Sugar, ton
Wool, tops
£ 24%
T£ %
£17%
64s. lb.
llOd
—Id.
I14d,
WAL7-0
'MTIOH
FNCB-
WALTONS
debenture stock
paying 7%% p.a.
$3,000,000 ISSUES
$2,000,000 UNDERWRITTEN
by INTERNATIONAL PACIFIC CORPORA-
TION LIMITED, HORDERN, UTZ & BODE,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
WALLACE H. SMITH & CO., Members
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne,
WILSON & CO., Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Prospectus is available from—the under-
writing brokers, any Stockbroker, any
branch of The National Bank of Austral-
asia Limited or capital city offices of
the Commonwealth Trading Bank of
Australia, any Waltons store, or from the
Corporation’s offices. Applications can
only be accepted on the form attached
to the prospectus.
FNCB-WALTONS CORPORATION LIMITED
Royal Exchange Building, Pitt and Bridge
Streets, Sydney, 2000. Tel.: 27-9281
WAL29RN
silver prices there would not need to
be a great deal of ore in the mine to
well repay the cost of proving and
extraction. A thin (12 inches) vein 200
feet deep and 200 feet long would con-
tain $600,000 worth of silver if grades
of 200 ounces per ton can be main-
tained. Even allowing for the fairly high
cost of working the mine and shipping
the concentrates overseas for treatment,
net profits would come to something
like $480,000.
Should the company be lucky enough
to establish as much ore as was extrac-
ted in the old days, 50,000 tons, it
would own a mine containing some
10,000,000 ounces of silver worth $2O
million. Again, even if extraction costs
are fairly high (say up to $5O per ton)
there would still remain a very rich
prize, although at this stage it is rather
optimistic to suggest such figures.
The company is also investigating
the “Ruby” mine, located two miles
south of the Tulloch mine. The Ruby
mine is somewhat older than Tulloch,
having been mined since 1897 by its
original discoverers, who worked it for
only a couple of years. The outcrop at
this mine has been traced on the surface
for over 1000 feet and the actual fissure
varies in width from eight inches to
four feet six inches, averaging about two
feet. Originally it was found necessary
to mine only the rich ore, as the asso-
ciated filling was not payable. This
particular lode is almost vertical, but
mining ceased at the 300 ft. level when
payable ore ran out. The two mines
together certainly have great potential
from their high grades, even if ton-
nages are not substantial, as modern
methods of locating small deposits are
likely to be far more efficient than those
employed by the original miners.
Commodities
Korean shivers
AS COULD BE expected, all the base
metals were quick to respond to the
North Korean situation and their
immediate reactions became more
marked when President Johnson made
his decision to call up reservists.
Tin had started strongly, yet finally
resisted hedge and speculative bear
selling to weaken and close with rela-
tively little change. Lead also began
well, with the addition of producer
bidding helping to hold the firmness;
this bidding apparently ceased toward
the finish, so prices dropped slightly.
Zinc remained the quietest of all, un-
able to hold its best levels.
It is clearly copper which still
possesses most volatility and the nearby
positions are moving toward peak
1967-68 levels. Supplies, of course, are
becoming tighter; dealings remain in
the shadow of the unfinished, six-
month-old American strike.
The latest moves to end this strike
may allow prices to ease. Most signifi-
cant, perhaps, is the U.S. Administra-
tion’s possible entry into the dispute; it
is reported to be “planning a time-
table.” That needn’t necessarily have
too sudden effects if the experience of
the Copper Range Co. is any guide: the
company has agreed on a new wage
pact and expects to take two months
before it can start shipping copper from
its White Pine mine.


J
g
TUESDAY
30
j/vjsTUAKY
*2&«#
“In Melbourne Tonight” Australia’s most watched television show is
bigger, brighter and bolder for 1968!
Now there are two national editions . . . three top-line comperes!
Mondays Entirely new local edition for Melbourne and Traralgon compered
by.popular English personality Mike Preston.
Tuesdays Local Melbourne and Traralgon edition compered .
by Graham Kennedy.
Wednesdays Graham Kennedy's National IMT.
Thursdays Don Lane will compere a brand new National edition
Put your products on IMT television’s best seller. National IMT
will be seen in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston, and mjany
country station’s. IMT starts Tuesday, January 30th, at 9.30 p.m.
Now even bigger, brighter and bolder for 1968!
For IMT bookings contact vour Channel 9 Account Executive.
9
GTI97


Share
Par |
D'v. :
Year iWaek | Fri. | 1967
Turnover
Yield %
Vauae;
cents |
aga | ago | close iH>gh ILovr |
Sya.
Melb. |
Oiv i Earn.
METALS AND OILS
Abedfoyle
50
2 I
’ 65 2 ODi 2 40, 2 00,
3 .213
49,250
55,000
A'mpol £xp.
.50 |
1 IE 1 89 2 04 2 20
1 03
40.900
29,000
5-0
20 (
6 08 7 00' 7 40| 7 1C
5 00
9,100
2,760
2.7
5.1
lA.O.G.
50
0
1.63 2 05 2 2 0 2 72|
1 42
13.750
35,100
B. H. South
.50
3 001 5 50 5.36 o 10
2 5r
34,450
48,789
2.5,
2 0
C.lR.A.
.50
0 1
5 30 T!1 30:11 90:13 101
4 95.
12.180
17,240
.7
1 6
1.00
10
2.9'2' ; 3 *51 ' 90, 4 05]
2 3C
3.600
2,500
2 6
2.9
1 90
10
4 20, 6 it* 6 B0 7 40
3 301
n.ioo
9,350
1 5|
2 ;
•Hamersiey
50 |
i 8 44'] 6 70 9.50
4 0b|
28.355
45,260
1
1.4
K. 1. Schesl
50
30
3 is: 5*. 6 40 4 90;
2-50|
11,650
73,300
48,600
50
5 1
4 18' 4 95, 5 08 5 4b|
3 50,
72,789
1 0|
2 6
ML LJetl
25 ■
* 25
1 551 1 80', l B8I 1 87
1 24,
17,300
38,900
3 3
9 0
1 00
27 5
t 491 6 '60" 9 16 6.54
2 65
6,650
13,000
New B.H.
.54 '
32 4 ;
4 6D B 80' 9 50| 9.60,
4 04
5,150
5,180
2 9
4 5
Nortih B.,H.
1.00 •
25
J 90 7 60 8.101 3 10|
3.21]
19.775
27,110
3 1
4.3
Oil Search
.50
T8 4S| 67, .56]
12,467,800
4,210
Reniscn
50
7 8C r 5 50 6.10 8 30|
5.50;
450
1,400
Santos
.25 '|
1 85 2.20 2.151 2 40)
1-551
600
1,000
W est M rrv.
50 '1
15
6.90 34 30 40 00,31.80;
fa 301
19,802
39,430
.3
.3
Woodside
.50 {
V
94 1 63 1 S0| 1.90|
.53i204,400|200,700
INDUSTRIALS
50 -
4 S |
1 02, .85 -841 1.03,
2 16 1 63 1.96 2 601
801
2,500
146,7001
5.2|
8.7
Adams, W.
1.00 ,
12 5 l
1 87
5,650
400,
6.4|
Q. 1
SO
4
.72 7_> .751 .87|
.66]
13,300
16,4001
5,31
6,4
50
5
1 65 . 43 1 561 1 74
1.37
1.72!
1'
3.2
5.7
1 CO ,
10 i
1 96 2 10 2.10, 2 051
600;
4.8
Allied Mill Is
tAtnsl. Chern,
A-nrppl
.50
.50 |
50 1
: i
1 79 1 53 1.50 1.83
71 50 451 80
*3' 1-OOi 1 23
1 45 29,100 1,300
.41! 6,8001 2,100
.57,225, B20| 146,200
4 0
3.0
8.5
5 9
6 1
.50 (
5 (
.59 63; .601 .76
55
36,796
38,700
8.3
10 6
•a p,e
50 I
5
a 34 : it l io| 1.35
88
9.IOC
6,700
4.5
6.8
1 00
9
] 30 1 41, 1.35] 1 53
1.28
78,350
50,000
6. y
8.9
AN.2. Bank
2 14
25 7
6.0*, 7 70 7.50| 8,60
5 35
500
1,100
3.0'
5.9
11 0*0
10
10 a : 70 1 601 1 93
1 17
2,950
6.3
6. B
A *0.1.
*1 00 '
10
2 90, 3 15: 2 96| 3 80
4 bC t 40 3 401 4 60
2 BO,
33,050
20,900
3.4
b 8
2.00 '1
16
3.00
300
; 100
4 7
8.0
'A .G - C
'50'
7 5
1 W>, 1 S-0 1.81 2,02
1 45
72,780) 19,200
4.1
7 3
,50l
5
1 06 1 30 1 22, J 50
85
25.600
i 15 '2x2
7 1
2.00 •
20 '
3 Jif 4 00 3 8>D 4 20
3 30
300
700
5.3
5 7
A.F.M.
1 00 '
9
1 71 1 44 1.45, 1 75
1.23
30,2501 37,300
6.2
6.0
A u C-
i oo
10
3 07 J 60 3 30 4 17
3 05
i 200
2.6
9.8
l 00
10
? .32 2 45 2 49 2 55
2 02;
600
loo
4 .0
7.1
2 00
20
5 ? r J 6 54 *• S0| 6 Be
5 00
14,6751 8,750
3.1
5 3
.50
5
1 SO 1 P5 2.89; 2.10
2,200]
2.8
5.8
Bcrlcl
b.mm.
1 00
.50 1
15
7.5
2.66 2 SOI 2-JO 2 90
1 57i 5.50 1 5-r, 1.77
2 33
1.20
3,400
30,900
5,900
6.5
4,7
14.5
6.7
Bowd* Ind.
B'ornl
■ •SO )
so
7
10
1 2J'I 1' 40 1.44' 1,45
1 94'l 1 78' 1-781 2 35
1.10
1.73,
5,400.
25,6001 18.800
4.9
5 6
12.5
8 5
Bora Wfii'rnur
1 00
t>
1 85' 1 62, 1 66 1 85
1.381
3,0001
3.6
n.6
.50
5
,621 W| 74 80
56
18,700
, 29,300
6 8
.50
7.5
1 56': 1 Id" 1 181 1.70
1 141
32.550
34,200
5 1
8 1
1 00
12 '
2 49| 2 W 2 23' 2 92
2 24
3 9,900
5.300
4.2'
6 8
7. 00
•19
6 60 l'b 25 17 25,17.00
6,20,132,152|159,830| 1.1
1 9
SO 1
'6,25
78' T 03' 1 02, 1.08
.76
4.800
; 5.200
‘'j.l
10.1
Burns PhWn
C . U.B. ”2"
1,00
10
3 92 3 b£ 3 501 4,20
3.50
15,700
! 2.700
2.9
a.i
1 00
1<3
3 25. 3 65 3 60, 3 70
2 90
3.500
1 20.900
3j6
6 A
.50
? 20, 1 951 1 96| ? 38
1 83
46,300
; 5,800
4 1
7 b
Carrier Air
.50
5
.70 78 .80; 1 02
53
3,20C
1 10.600
6,1
12 3
C’mnlit* Fur.
1 00
18
6 o!> 7 351 7.30) 7 12
5 60
3,500
I 1.300
2 5
5 3
C'hH'rrrj*rUf..n
.50
6 25
1 76, 1 69 1 7b| 2 02
1 42
| 2,B'i0
3.6
9.5
Clyde Ind.
7 5
.85 73, .71] .87
.59
26,450, 8.909
10 6
12 0
1 00
7
i 57 2 3 7 2 SO’ 2 21
1 34
28.70C
| 13,400
2.3
8 0
. 50 •
5 5
1 23i a 2H 1 251 1 26
2 821 4 S3' 4 70' 5 42
1 101 00,U00 123,400
4 4
6 6
C.S.R.
1 OO
T2
2.78
38.75C
40,350
2.7
4 X
C-A C A
1 00
10
1.46; 1.60! 1 70 1 60
1.53
15,5001 7,000
5 9
0 9
C.B A
1 oo
10
2 05 1 3 00| 2.80 2 08
3 92
4,500; 6,630
3 6! 5 3
C B.C
1 00
10
2 30; 2 es 3 101 2 9T
2 09
19,550' 1,450
3 21 '& .7
50
5
1 50 5 601 1 631 1 05; 1 25, 3,900. 7,900| 3 11 5.0
C.I.G.
1 00
11
2 35 3 OO' 3 031 2 SSI 2 OS
4,200 6,700
3 D'| 6 fa
so
2 S
.31 .411 .39' SIT .34
35,4001 49.100
6,4
14 5
Consal F.-ass
.50
TO
2 59 4 351 4 40, 4 71
2 45; 7,650,
2.31 4 3
1 00
9
1' '1 tffli 2 14" 2 15f 2.25
1 60
2,300, 6,800
4.21 6.7
Courtoul'd*
1 00
6
49 50 501 fab
, .421 J,2u0 1,000
12,01 9.8
C ra n a, G £
1 oo
T9
5 SO 4 30! 4 301 fa OC
, 3.60
1 6,9001
3.3
6 J
Cresc-o
1 CO
s
4 801 2.55' 2 551 2.561 2.3C
3 1
10.5
53
5
,85. 1 T1 1 34, 1 12
76
26,400' 27,000
4 4
10,3
Cyclone
1 00
10
1 40 1 21 1 301 1 fa;
1 23
4,400! 9,200
7 7
1,0
Dalgety
2 14
25 7
4 90 4 bO'l 4 60 5 76
.1.44
i.ooo; 40(
4 8
8 1
D F.iC.
2.00
25
6 OO 1 1 l'fcl 5 00! 6 3C
5 2C
1
5 0
10 6
1 00
•10
1.74 1 521 1 511 1 90, 1 401 39.900128,100
6 6
9.7
Oun’lop
1 00
8 5
1 33" 1 86 1 87. 1 92
] 22 32,600! 10,500
4 b t
E M.I,
50
9
2 X 3 On 3 GO| 3 OO
2 ?.C
3,200
3.0
7 7
E.2 Ind.
a oo
14
2 50 5 32 3 30 44;
2 07
, 21,250) 35.40C
4.0
5 4
1 00
1 11
2 64 2 2 4 3 2 71
I DC
12,850 7,750
4
10 4
Elec. "3"
1.00
1 7
1 .59 .25 .31 .95 Si
1 3,800] 29,300
0
14 0
Em: 1
50
' 5
.491 m 65! 7<
42
| 22,400| 7,000
7.3
9 7
E.S A.
Z 14
21 4
5 2C 7 50 7 20, 7 50 5 40
i 1 » si 48 1 25 54
700] 15C
2
6 3
50
6 2
] 10,9501 2,400
13.fi
19 1
Fa -l«x J.
50
6 5
' 2 55' 2 30 2 301 2 63| 2 05l 18.8001
3.7
5 4
1 00
6
1 40 1 22 1.14 1.5bl 1 10
4,700 30r
5
6 S
'Felt Tex.
.50
1 5
49 55 53| 61 4*
i6.60Q| 31,501
9
17 4
50
I 7 5
1 60. a 80 1 60 2.10, 1 55
fa.600| • IOC
4
6.9
1 00 '17 5
1 3 7B' 4 60' 4 65' 5 55 3 60: 1,300
3
6 3
50 | 4
\7 71 .661 721 5.'
! 2.700 6.20C
5. c
10 0
2 00 M 12
1.40 1 15 1 14; 1 57| 1 10] 3.750 6001 10
17.0
•50
'] 4 5
7SI 79 .70 . 801 5,, 1,500 4.400 7.1
; i4 4
Gordon Go’LCh 50
1 10
.7 15 ISO 1.751 2 Ml l.?4i 2,400' 3.200! S.‘
p| 0.1
C.rircr Bros
50
6 6
1 60 2 30 2.30) 2.54! 1 54 9 600 , 7,300 2 9 3.6
1 00
1 10
3 M 4 101 3.85! 3.35 4 25 5,900' 5.500 2 1
7.1
rl eo 11 n a. A. 6 50
22 18 18 25 U 19.700 25.100
4 54 5 28' 5 24 5.52| 4 10, 2,100' 19,250 2
*fli 62 63 bS .34 48,100 12 500
Herald. WT
X?
1 15
4 3
SO
8 8
M times
1 00
12 •»
2 ofa 50 3 50 3 75 2 80 2.250 13 300 3
7 6
Huttons
so
s
99 6? 6S l 02 . 65 1,600 S.SOOi} 7.4 10 3
I.C.' A N.2.
1 CO
7 5
1 l.L'O 1 97 1 02 1 12 .55 5 650 13.10a] 5.9] 10 6
! A.C.
so
*>
90 1 01 2 OO 2 21 1 77 16.650' 16,600 3.
3] 5 0
'ntnr Resist
50
' 5
87- 51 50 1 30 50 B.faOO 1 2,600! 9 3 10 4
Jones. Divto
so
, * 7
lies 3 19 1 17 1 51 3 ,4 36.60C' 1 20.400' 5.3! 10 0
Jones, Henry i go
1 12
• 3 >5 2.65: 2 61, 4 20 2.55, 3.600 3.40CJI 4.fa 10.8
Kauri
50 t
19' .781 1& 24! .15 4,700) 9.800;
'! 10 3
KeMnator
.SC
•75
1 96 * 45 1 $0 1 99 1 351 2,20-3 1.500,; 5
> 12 4
K&i'ak.
so
b J
' 3 5C| 70. 70 I 50 60; 4CC
[ 8
91 15,3
■Lend Lease
K
5 5
85 1.30 l 18' 1 25 . 30 21.000! 3,100! 4
7! S.fa
Share
Par | Div. '
Value| cents
Year |Week | Fri. ] 1967
ago ] ago [close |High |Low |
Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
| Yield %
Div.|Earn.
.50 |
0 |
2 58 1
2.241
2 23!|
2.75
'2.30-1
5,3501
.1,300
3.6[
7.6-
1.00 (
12
2.60|
3.601
3.20
4.00
2.52
4,800
14,500
3.8
6.6
M.L.C.
2.00 j
31.6 I
8.301
11.70,11.75
13.40
8.12
1,680
110
2.7
2.7
.50 i
7.5 '
T.ob;
.07|
.89
1.24
.90
16,750
200
8.4
12.1
.50 i|
5.2
2.13|
1.97'
1.85
2.32
1.97
6,200
700
2.8
5.7
1.00 i
12.5 1
2.851
3.14!
3.00
3.15
2.50
5,650
3,500
4.2
5.6
. 50 '.
7.5
1.171
1.02j
1.02
1.25
1.00
2,000
3,600
7.4
9.9
1.00
14 l
2 .1651
2 73;
2.60
3.10
2.48,
1,300
900
5 4
6.4
ME Her, R. W.
1.00 j
10
1 .'60|
1.231
1.25
1.68
1.25
12,200
5,500
8.0
14.9-
1.00 j
20 '
2 80'
1 30)
1.20
3.30|
1.14
7,700
,19,100
8.3
19.0
1.00 1
111 1
3 607
4 OS1
5.20
5.36
2.55
1,850
12,850
2.1
10.0
.50 1 10
3 05
4 801
4.40
4.65
3.02
21,700
65,200
2.3
5.2
.50 »
6
1.411
1 201
1.12
1.45
1.15
4,350
5,400
5.4
9.9
1.00 i
9
2 481
2 21!
2.18
2.75
2.30,
2,373
400
2.8
8.3
1.00 I
10 '
2.141
3 07)
3.10
3.20
1.93
13,100
16,500
3.2
5.9
.50 j
10
2 451
2 401
2.30
2.55
2.15
11,950-
26,400
4.3
9.0
■Niat. D'a'iry
2.25 1
28
35.20j
39.001 32.00140.50
31.50
10
4.1
7.1
News
.'50 j
6 '
1 '67*1'
2 721
2.95
2.75
1.56
5,300
5,400
2.0
6. fr-
iN.Z. Ins.
1.00 |
12 i
2.75;
2 501
2.40
3.00
2.20
850
4.0
7.5-
.50
3
• 76
.85
.94
1.02
.70
16,500
54,900
5.3
6.8
.50 1;
5
.681
.791
.8/
.92
.66
24,900
52,800
5.7
10.2
O.'P.S.M.
1.00
16
4.551
4 80!
4.65
5.80
4.45
800
100
3.4
5.7
.50 '
6.5 '
1.30|
'1.70',
1.75
1.72
1.27
10,600
3.7
6.7
P.'G .IH.
.50
7
1.181
,76|
.75
1.24
.72
12,350
9.3
14.3
Peko
.'50
11 .'25
2.41
8' 281
9 08
6.90
2.00
72,475
71,010
1.2
2.5
Pen'fo'I'ds
.50
6.25
1.90|
3 531
3.55
3.60
1.77
5,050
1.8
2.7
iPerp. Trustee's
2.00
US
'3.501
3 101
3.00
3.55
3.00
2,950
6.0
7.0
iPetersvi'lle
.20
2.5
.521
.331
.38
.54
.35
39,850
153,100
6.6
8.2
Peters, W.A.
.50 1
6.25
1.731
1.311
1 .16
1.73
1.01
300
s.c>-
Pioneer Conic.
.50 '
7.5
1.171
1.41]
1.45
1.57
1.11
51,750
19,100
l l
9.5
Prestlige
.50 '
6 25
.751
,93|
.92
.97
.75
1,400
2,500
13.2
Provincial Tir.
.50
5.5
1.031
l'.'09‘
1.05
1.16
.92
5,600
5.2
8.4
.50
5
1.00"
90 j
.88
1.35
.66
1,300
1,700
5.7
14.3
Q ’ lan di iCe-meint
2 00
22
' 7.60
5 80j
6.00 9.051 5.70
1,125
3.6
7 ?
Q’l ; and l‘ns.
1.00
12.5
4.201'
5.35'
5.55
5.30
3.98
3,275
2.3| 6.3
Q ’tand 1 Press
1.00
15
5.001
4.651
4 65
5.23
4.30
3,800
3.2
6.3
Ree'd
.50
8
1 641
2 IC'i
? 10
2.15
1.45
13,100
3.3
8.3
Re'pco
.50
7.5
2.121
2 20|
2.28
2.52
1.97
34,200
30,600
3.3
5.3
iRocla
.50
7.5
' 1.841
1 831
1.70
2.00
1.70
11,500
4.4
6.5
Rothmans
1.00
14
2.401
2.001
2.05
2.67
1.63
10,900
10,600
6.8
9.6
S. A. Ru'b'ber
.50
5 6
.98'
.021
.8?
1.07
.80
1,400
2,900
6.8
10.4
Schweppes
..60
5 5
a 68':
1.551
1.68
1.71
1.40
3,500
4,300
3.3
5.3
Shel'leys
.50
' 7.5
2.95,
2 90i
2.90
3.02
2.90
2.6
6.7
Sli'm'ps'on Pcpe
.50
1 1
.27!
.29!
?8
.38
.24
5,600
800
3.6
10.5
Sleigh, H. C.
.50
5
.551
.701
.69
.89
.55
28,350
77,100
7.2
9.3
SrrfH'h, H'ow.
1.00
TO
2 67[
3.251
3 67
4.20
2.52
8,800
3,900
2.7
5.4
Solftwo'oidl
1.00
10
2.48|
1.951
2,05
2.48
1.80
400
4.9
11.3
Stir. Briit. Ins.
1.00
14
3 431
3 901
3 Rf
4 03
3.15| 1.30C
3.0
6.1
.50
5
1 05'|
.571
.56
1.08
.55
14,400
10,600
8 9
16.5-
.50
7.5
i 1 ■ 9'3'1
1.50
1.48
2.00
1.50
4,950
5.1
8.1
.50
6.5
2 43!
3.321
3.0C
3.50
2.22
8,600
16,100
2.4
3.8
.50
'5
1.13[
.80!
. /S
1.17
.75
■7,700
6.7
7.4
.50
a
| H.07[
.95!
.85
1.21
.83
4,000
1,100
9.4
10.6
1.00
20
3.40|
4.301
4.50
4.60
3.10
1,800
1,200
4.4
6.7
.50
5
T.4'li
4 SO'!
4 91
5.10
1.02
167,850
1.0
.'50
t 4 5
1 1.051
1.16.
1.16
1.21
.95
36,400
3.9
6.2
1.00
16.25 4 83-
5 801
5.65
5.80
4.70
4,125
2.9
U.'E.B. Intf.
.50
5.5
1 1.20’;
.75‘|
.75
1.32
.74
300
5.9
11.5
1.00
14
i 4.75)
5 65?
6.14
6.20
4.45
2,375
1,800
2.3
5.1
Walker, F. J.
1.00
12.5
| 1'. 731
1 22!
1.20
1.73
1.03| 1,900
10.4
6.2
Wa'iltons
.50
1 6 25
i -99i
.801
.761 1-05
1 43,904
11,000
8.2
11.4
7 5
1 T.35I
1.001
1.00| 1.31
.99
too!
7.5
13.7
■Woolworths
.50
6
1 1.31!
T.l'fcij
1.181 1.38
1.131 69,6501 31,700
5.1
6.9
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY i
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
iast
AH ordinaries . . |
454.93
465.32
155.95
159.37
50 leaders
178.44
182.06
Banks
234.71
221.33
149.34
149.16
Other finances . .
587.13 1
586.18
82.81
83.07
Pastcral ....
222.00
228.19
116.41
122.07
Transport ....
466.21
472.44
92.45
93.47
Retail Merchants .
334.94
335.77
102.43
101.17
Services ....
55.20
55.33
Foods
205.25
209.81
118.50
119.26
Textiles
194.87
193.39
81.48
81.04
Che mil cals ....
348.63
351.47
82.50
83.15
Electricals .
448.63
440.37
67.73
67.19
Paper
108.35
108.47
Building ....
748.41
758.95
100.67
99.40
Automotive
823.29
801.73 '
91.87
93.38
Fuel Power . . .
198.69
211.87
Steel engineering .
1146.95
1197.73
258.00
269.47
Non-ferrous . . .
2246.66
2345.15
460.21
477.73
OIL
SUGAR
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
last
Brisbane ....
231.03
258.19
102.76
97.58
Melbourne ....
212.28
220.23
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
SYDNEY
Latest
°/K
average dividend . .
6.42
MELBOURNE
dividend
4.77
earnings
7.66
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend
5.54
earnings
—
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend
3.57
earnings
6.86
C'WEALTH BONDS
Week
before
r riday
%
Short 4 76
4 74
Medium .... 5 06
5.08
Long .. .. 5.25
5.25
THE WEEK'S TURNOVER
i
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
•| 1 N DUSTRI AL|
MINING 11 N D USTR1 AL| MINING
1 Sales | Value | Sales | Value 1 Sales 1 Value 1 Sales 1 Value
| Vol. 1 $ 1 Vol. | .$ | Vol. I S | Vol. | S
| 1000 1 1000 1 1000 | 1000 1 1000 f 1000 | 1000 | 100>
Week
Week
before
to Friday . .
. . '1 4258 110013 | 5198 1 7069 1 4272 1 8752 I 3182 1 6651
. . . . i| 4963 •[ 9444 -| 7044 | 9788 | 4171 | 9579 | 5150 | 9556
OVERSEAS INDEXES
London
| "Financial Times’’
New
[ Dow
York 1 Tokyo
Jones |D. Jones
1 Inds.
Secs.
| Gold
| Inds.
| Rails | Avge.
Jan.
1967
1967
Month
'Week
Latest
. 1967 . . . .
hiig-h
ow
ago
ago
313.4
415 5
310 3 '
389.1
404.3
414.3
78.31
81.85
78.27.
76.42
75.98
75.86
51.9
68.4
47.3
67.2
68.7
66.6
7-86.41
934.35
791.14
897.83
880.32
865.06
205.1611444.35
272.9911506.27
205.3111253.24
.231.65 1266.27
233.09|1322.99
231.75|1305.23
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
High excitement seized many metals and oils over most of
the week, yet this was being rather tempered toward the close;
nickel “prospects” in particular came under some suspicion.
These doubts, however, did not budge Western Mining, which
stayed at $40.00 to realise a net $2.00 gain; Great Boulder, on
the other hand, showed a net 10 cent advance, to $7.60, on the
week, but actually slipped down 30 cents on Friday’s dealings.
BHP reacted in like manner, its finishing $17.25 (for a net
80 cent rise) being a retreat from a peak $lB.OO. Among indus-
trials CSR put on 30 cents, and Coal and Allied 45 cents.


MSA
No information is disclosed to clients until candidates
have given permission during personal discussion.
MANAGING DIRECTOR
$20,000 - $25,000
for the Australian company of a British group which controls merchant,
marketing, finance and manufacturing activities in various countries, notably
in South East Asia. The group has made available substantial funds for the
expansion of activities in Australia which at present comprise several
operating subsidiaries under a holding company. The Managing Director
will be responsible for developing these and other interests, taking full
advantage of the international and export potential of the group, and for
profitable management of operations. Location: Melbourne. Interstate and
occasional overseas travel.
Starting salary will be negotiated in a range $20,000-$25,000. Car. Super-
annuation.
Candidates must have outstanding records of profitable investment and use
of capital, and the management and diversification of business enterprises.
They should have proven ability to stimulate trade and to negotiate at
relevant levels. They should be well educated, and a university degree or
other professional qualifications would be highly regarded. Age: about
40 to 55.
Please address —or if mail difficulties continue —'phone or deliver brief information, quoting
reference S/7557, to
Mr. J. Summerton
MANAGEMENT SELECTION AUSTRALIA,
424 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne. 3004. Tel. 26 6745.
M5A.3302. B
THE LAND
Foreign aid for the beef herds?
PARDON US FOR beefing about beef
cattle again, but the idea has taken
root that they have broader and fat-
ter backs for this country to ride upon
into the twenty-first century than sheep.
As we have noted here in recent weeks,
shortage of protein is ushering in the
global tragedy of mass starvation. The
Food and Agriculture Organisation of
the United Nations lists 35 countries
in Asia, Africa, and South America
where the average per capita consump-
tion of protein is already below a tol-
erable minimum.
Clearly, the need of protein is vast.
FAO figures also establish that it is
wanted in the form of animal products.
Consumption of meat and milk around
the world turns out to be pretty well
directly proportional to average per
capita incomes. Whatever the tradit-
ional diet and regardless of religious
laws, as soon as people get more money
they spend it on meat and milk.
At the moment the foreign aid pro-
grams which give countries such as
India advice and grants of cereals and
hardware do nothing to assuage the
common man’s yearning for meat. By
dint of their own efforts these countries
may manage to keep furnishing their
people with enough calorific foodstuffs
and with many of the manufactures
that make life less burdensome, but
without continuing outside help they
will never have enough meat. The
foreign aid do-gooders in Europe should
apply their liberality more broadly and
assist countries such as Australia, which
have great areas of grassland, to realise
their potential to produce huge quanti-
ties of beef. Funds expended here
could have a much swifter and greater
impact on the Asian larder than if sunk
in the mysterious mud of Asia.
It is a crazy and narrow-minded
world which while groaning for pro-
tein rewards the Queensland beef pro-
ducer with only a 7 percent return
on the capital he employs. One fancies
that the Swedish industrialist manu-
facturing transistor radios for presenta-
tion to each Indian submitting himself
for sterilisation would surely be get-
ting 14 percent for his trouble. The
Bureau of Agricultural Economics in
Canberra is currently investigating the
financial structure of the Australian
beef industry and expects to be able
to publish the details of its findings
soon. Meanwhile, it has released some
broad facts pertaining to Queensland,
the State with 45 percent of the Com-
monwealth’s beef cattle population.
They paint a picture of darkish hue
and lead one to despair that the de-
velopment envisaged by our animal-
husbandry scientists as technically feas-
ible is economically impossible under
existing circumstances. For instance,
in the Central Coastal and Central
West regions of the State the return
to capital invested in beef production
was only 4.7 percent and 5.4 percent
respectively. This is lower than the
average bank overdraft rate of 5.6 per-
cent. Properties in the Channel
Country have a highly variable return
—a feature which usually discourages
the private investor. During the three-
year period of the survey the average
return for this region was only 6.6
percent, but one year the profit was
17.3 percent while the next year a
loss of 4 percent was suffered.
The best area in Queensland to
attempt to raise beef is still the coastal
south where the average return on
capital is 9.6 percent. This region is
already relatively well developed with
an average stocking rate around 50
head to the square mile. Next best
is the coastal north (a 9 percent re-
turn) and the opportunities for expand-
ing the industry here seem promising.
Further development in these two rela-
tively small regions could be carried
forward by the traditional form of pri-
vate investment. Eleswhere, however,
large infusions of cheap money for
fencing, water supply, communications,
and pasture improvement will be
needed to achieve significant progress.
Some Americans with coffers full
enough to withstand the rather long
and costly process of development in
the Gulf Country and on the Barkly
Tablelands have taken up a number
of leases and set the ball rolling. But
their efforts amount to only a trickle.
According to the BAE, it costs just on
$lOO to accommodate an additional
beast in Queensland. The scientists
have been saying that there is no tech-
nical reason why Queensland should
not be able to double or even treble
the size of its beef herd, which pre-
sently stands at more than 6 million
head. By this reckoning the Queens-
land beef industry needs to have up-
wards of $6OO million pumped into
it right away. Where it this kind of
money to come from if not through
foreign aid?


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
The films that got away
By CHARLES HIGHAM
QUIZ QUESTION: What do the fol-
lowing have in common? Cary Grant,
Tyrone Power, Gregory Peck, Mickey
Rooney, Dirk Bogarde, Sean Connery,
Albert Finney, Robert Vaughn, Rod
Taylor, Ray Milland, Nina Foch,
Michael Caine, Ron Randell, Michael
Pate, Glenn Ford, James Mason, Ted
Willis, Jack Lee, Karel Reisz, James
Poe, the King Brothers, Joseph Losey,
Tony Richardson, Joshua Logan, Lewis
Allen, Louis Edelman, Nicholas Roeg?
Answer: They all planned to make films
in Australia. The latest arrivals have
been Eddie Davis, due to make a
thriller, “It Takes All Kinds,” and Hank
Saperstein, a new Hollywood figure,
who is shooting a picture with Lee
Marvin and Toshiro Mifune in the
Caroline Islands about a Japanese and
an American soldier stranded in World
War 11, who fight the elements and
the jungle together and learn the
futility of wartime enmities. Saperstein
plans to shoot Jon Cleary’s “The Long
Shadow” in Australia next July, with
John Guillermin (“The Blue Max”)
directing, and photography by Conrad
Hall (“Morituri,” “The Professionals”).
To the above list can now be added
Marlon Brando and Paul Newman,
mentioned with Albert Finney for pos-
sible casting.
Since Cary Grant announced in 1949
that he was going to “ride the Austra-
lian back country” as a bushranger in
“The Australian Story,” not a star who
has ever met an Australian seems to
have avoided saying he would like to
make a film here. Each one, and
directors and producers as well, who
has dropped by Sydney has declared
his intention of moving in at once,
getting an industry off the ground, and
launching it with a spectacular feature.
One sure way to get space in the
Press, of course; and no publicity agent
worth his salt isn’t going to advise
them to talk about a picture at a
conference. A flurry of preliminary
announcements; giant names dropped
good and hard; the visitor’s return to
Hollywood, and silence.
Some of the schemes have been en-
gagingly bizarre, making one wish they
had come off, if only to bring about a
return to the weirdie, which flourished
in the ’thirties and the ’forties: a film
so crazy and so bad that it seemed to
defy the rules of sanity. Nina Foch, for
instance, the star of “Cry of the Were-
wolf,” announced that she was to appear
in a story set on a wild island off the
coast of South Australia; according to
one report, she was to be menaced by
“savage birds, a mammoth sea-lion, and
various Australian mammals.” From
this she would be rescued and whisked
back to the civilisation of Los Angeles
by the 50-inch-chested Clint Walker.
Direction was to be by Albert Zugsmith,
producer of “High School Confiden-
tial.”
Almost equally strange would have
been “Wake in Fright,” from a novel
by Kenneth Cook, to be directed by
Joseph Losey and written by the West
Indian scriptwriter Evan Jones, who
collaborated on most of Losey’s more
pretentious films. In this one, Dirk
Bogarde was to be a sensitive Sydney
schoolteacher who spends the whole
picture expressing priggish horror at
the goings-on of the locals (beer drink-
ing and two-up, save the mark) in a
kind of surrealist version of Broken Hill.
The Losey style would no doubt have
worked decidedly oddly on the Broken
Hill locations, and the thought of Dirk
Bogarde braving schooners and blow-
flies makes one boggle. Karel Reisz
also planned a weirdie which would
have made his “Morgan” look square:
“Ned Kelly,” which David Storey
(“Radcliffe,” “This Sporting Life”)
scripted as the story of an inspired
madman given to long soliloquies in a
cave, the action slowed up for reels at
a stretch while he meditated on the
sins of the then rulers of Australia. “I
can well understand how Australia
made a Ned Kelly,” Mr. Reisz said
after disappearing from Australia in a
notable huff, dismissing Australian
actors and technicians as hopeless.
I am sorry that Ted Willis did not
make “The Skedule,” about a proxy
bride on her way by bus to Alice
Springs to meet her husband, that
Cilento and Connery didn’t make “Call
Me When the Cross Turns Over,” that
Gregory Peck failed to appear, com-
plete with Italian accent, as Nina
Culotta, that James Poe didn’t give us
“Captain Cook,” that the King Brothers
didn’t make an unnamed monster pic-
ture (“Kanga the Monster Kan-
garoo,” perhaps?), that Joshua Logan
didn’t make “Careful, He Might Hear
You,” that Mickey Rooney didn’t make
a story about a magic kangaroo, that
Glenn Ford didn’t herd sheep, in
“Heaven With a Gun,” and, of course,
that neither Albert Finney nor Michael
Caine flumped around in Kelly armor
in the bush. But my greatest disap-
pointment of all involved the non-
Cary Grant.. . riding the back-
country
Michael Caine ... yet another Ned
Kelly
Paul Newman. .. casting a long
shadow


appearance of Romy Schneider and
Horst Buchholz earlier this year.
Of all the episodes involving would-
be producers of Australian features,
this was my favorite. A Baron von
Clockenstein was reported to have
arrived, and to be staying at the
Chevron Hotel, Sydney. He was to
make a German co-production, with
Schneider and Buchholz, and he wanted
various Australian production com-
panies to co-finance the project. We
were alerted that- Miss Schneider was
to arrive on a morning flight from
Europe. A fur coat was secured for
her, the champagne flowed, and the
Baron moved to a Double Bay motel,
into which Miss Schneider was
reportedly booked. The two German
stars were to appear in a love story,
set in Surry Hills. It would show Aus-
tralia as it really is, in all its teeming,
seething excitement and its fierce
beauty. Then suddenly the Baron
checked out of the motel, Miss
Schneider was found not to have booked
for Australia, and nothing further has
been heard of anyone concerned /from
that day to this,
. , T . ,
n , ow J vvaat t 0 ac jd some more
suggested Australian films. Voss,
starring Peter O Toole and directed
by David Lean on desert locations with
J u ie Andrews as Laui a Y an j
based on a scnpt by Billy Wilder and
J; .■ „• . . am °, R ic *ers m tae
Chariot, ' w^ [y Mona Washborne as
Mts. V,Martita Hunt as Muss
a * e ’ Bobby Rydell, m blackface, as
Alf Dubbo, and Rod Steiger as Him-
melfarb, directed by Ingmar Bergman
a by Morris West and Jon
Cleary. Marlon Brando as Ned Kelly,
with Angela Lansbury as his mother,
directed by John Ford from a script
by ~ • t^e^} oca !-ni ta^e il t .f .T"
Patrick White. Or The Kellys Ride
Again, a musical by Lionel Bart, with
Cliff Richaid, Col Joye, and Johnny
O Keefe, directed by Gene Kelly, with
Joan Sutherland, letting her musical
hair down for once, as Kelly’s mother,
Any takers?
Schubert in the suburbs
By PAUL FROLICH
WHEN Schubert’s name is mentioned,
people automatically think of Vienna.
However, one of the world’s leading
Schubert scholars and interpreters of
his keyboard music may be found in
a shrub-surrounded cottage in the
Sydney suburb of Middle Cove. At
least, that’s where she may be found
when she is home, between wide-
ranging concert tours.
Described by a major Canadian critic
as “the world’s leading authority on
Schubert,” Miss Tessa Birnie is a
pleasant New Zealander, who made
her home in Sydney some years back.
Recently, she returned from a full
year’s tour of 37 countries and,
nominally having a rest, is furiously
working, learning, practising, research-
ing, planning for future tours and
organising the work of the Keyboard
Society, which she founded three years
ago.
As so often happens with our finest
artists, Miss Birnie is not nearly as
well known here as she is in Vienna,
Washington, or Hong Kong. During
her last tour, she gave six recitals at
the world-famed Salzburg Festival and
others in Singapore, Malaysia, Manila,
Japan, Calcutta, Kuwait, and Bahrein,
all over Europe, the U.S., and Canada.
She held master classes for promising
pianists in the Philippines, Japan, and
Hong kong and was appointed artist
in residence at Victoria University in
Canada. In the course of that tour,
she visited instrument makers, music
publishers, libraries, and manuscript
collections the world over, collected
rare music, of which she sent 50 parcels
home to Australia, and persuaded the
famous Schutze to make a spinet for
delivery to the Keyboard Society.
Although Miss Birnie’s international
reputation rests in the main on her
unique knowledge of Schubert’s piano
music, her interests range widely,
j have heard superlative Schubert
p er f ormances from her, here in Syd-
ney and on recorc j Sj But j> ve a j so heard
her play works by Mozart, Haydn,
Bach, and the sons of Bach equally
well. In Washington she gave a per-
formance of a new work by New Zea-
land’s Gillian Whitehead, commissioned
hy the pianist. Miss Birnie’s current
preoccupation is the preparation of a
series of Sydney recitals in which
a chronological survey of keyboard
music from 1350 to the present will
he presented. These recitals, for the
Keyboard Society and in public, will
take place later this year. Before then,
Miss Birnie will tour New Zealand,
broadcast for the ABC, and continue
planning her next world tour, in 1969,
which includes extensive engagements
in Canada and the Soviet Union. She
employs neither agent nor manager,
but organises all her work herself.
Tessa Birnie is a fine musician; she
| s an av j(j tourist as well. In Manila,
s he pl a yed on an ancient harpsichord
of Chinese make; there, also, she fought
a sma ß war against rapacious local
impresarios whose ideas of program-
ming are a little odd. In Japan, she
found that almost only Western music
is broadcast and that the studios con-
tain some of the world’s finest pianos
as well as the very latest in recording
and technical equipment. In Hong
Kong, the earnestly studious Chinese
proved gluttons for attending master
classes. In India, concerts start at 9.30
p.m., forcing performers to remain at
the “tropicalised” Bosendorfer grand
until midnight and after. In a fine air-
conditioned hall on the Persian Gulf, a
genuine sheik presented her with
freshly flown-in flowers after a recital.
Turkish music proved very attractive
and the Turkish Presidential Orchestra
gives concerts in Ankara through the
iciest of winter blasts.
In Canada, Miss Birnie broke new
ground by including in her programs
Schubert works which exist in frag-
ments only and which have not been
performed for a century and a half.
In Canada, too, Miss Birnie was im-
pressed by the magnitude of perform-
ers’ fees, which, she knows, could not
be matched in this country. There, as
elsewhere, she found that the wealth
of technical equipment now available
to everyone tempts performers to play
records rather than discover the inner
content of the music by studying scores
and painstaking practice.
Wherever Tessa Birnie travels, she
follows her lines of research into old
instruments, manuscripts, works that
have gone out of print or been lost. On
her last tour, she visited harpsichord"
makers all over the world and is now
satisfied that hardly any of the instru-
ments now being built bear the least
resemblance to genuine old instruments
except in appearance. Wherever she
goes, and whenever she returns to Aus-
tralia, her concern is for keyboard
players, music teachers, and students.
It is from this concern that she gives
a great deal of her time and energy
to the projects of the Keyboard Society
and constantly tries to interest
musicians in music and listeners in
true listening.
It is a sad fact that Australia has
taken very little interest in the presence
of this outstanding artist. In the past
five years, during which she played
hundreds of concerts overseas,,appeared
as a TV artist in many countries, and
held master classes far and wide, she
has rarely been heard here. In 1963,
she gave one concert, in 1964 she gave
a series of recitals in which she played
all of Schubert’s piano sonatas, and I
heard her once more, in 1966, shortly
before she left for her last tour.
As far as I know, these were her
only public appearances in Sydney and,
needless to say, she had to organise
them herself! It strikes me as rather
peculiar that it should be left to a
Canadian University to honor an artist
whose home is in Sydney, that it should
be the usually unimaginative manage-
ment of the Salzburg Festival which
offers her prestigious engagements. Per-
haps the time will come when we will
celebrate our own “celebrities” at home
rather than acclaim only imported
artists, few of whom can match Tessa
Birnie for integrity and musical per-
sonality.


Art
January brouhaha
By ELWYN LYNN
Archibald, Wynne, and Sulman. Art
Gallery of New South Wales,
Sydney.
TO CLEAR THE AIR: False para-
doxes abound about the January
brouhaha at the Art Gallery of New
South Wales; the Trustees are so
“ignorant” and “prejudiced” that they
award the portrait prize to the best
Judy Cassab’s and the Wynne
to Sali Herman’s reasonable landscape;
in 1966 the Sulman went to Louis
James, with Douglas Dundas, a “be-
nighted” Trustee, as judge, and few
quarrelled with the award; in 1967 the
Trustees appointed Professor Smith as
judge, and his award to Cec Burns
caused general bewilderment. Maybe
Smith is keeping closer to the letter
of the law than the Trustees, for
Burns’ true rivals were genre not sub-
ject paintings.
Maybe, too, the Trustees have be-
come unfair game, and I wonder if it
is right to call the Archibald and per-
haps the Wynne, both of which the
Trustees are legally obliged to per-
petuate and judge, anachronisms.
Bacon, Picasso, Warhol, and Elaine de
Kooning might feel their ages if you
told them they were anachronistic, but
the issue is the low standard of portrait
paintings in Australia (Bacon, etc.,
would have to live here a year to
qualify!) and not the irrelevance of
portraiture. Except, perhaps, for Rem-
brandt and during the second half of
the 15th century, portraits have merely
reflected styles and haven’t opened new
fields. But the notion of art as opening
new areas is a curiously pseudo-
scientific, mid-20th-century one of
mainstream progressiveness wherein
anything not coming via Cubism and
Mondrian is, according to a U.S. critic,
A. C. Goossen, diversionary and smells
of the literary swamp! Even if you
have a mainstream view, you have to
admit the existence of eccentrics: in
fact, it’s the powerful eccentricity of
English art from 1750 to 1860 that’s
reflected in our best figurative painters.
The Cassab portrait, like her recent
ones of Oscar Edwards and Orban, is
a rather unflattering fusing of character
'analysis with a symbolic, abstracted
format. The greyed, smudged, and
stained touches run counter to the
broad sweeps of the cloak-like dress,
give the flesh tones a restrained dis-
tance, and endow Margo Lewers’ un-
wavering scrutiny with almost basilisk
power. In comparison, most other
works look contrived and over-ripe.
If there’s a lot that’s conventional in
the Cassab portrait Strachan’s
faded gold portrait of Ken Rowell and
Bush’s robust head of Doug Watson
make virtues of convention attempts
at modernism fail: Juniper makes of
Above, the Archibald may not produce
high-standard portraits often, but there
are interesting faces in the crowd
Rose Skinner a pale, flickering art-
nouveait flame; a Barney Newman ver-
tical sneaks up behind Sibley’s dark-
faced Judith Wright; Stuart Maxwell
puts some Renaissance portraits behind
himself and Maxwell House coffee jars
in front who’s advertising whom?
Robert Morling’s Me with an optical,
over-lapped, double-take, shows it’s
hard to see ourselves; Jo Caddy puts
a trompe Voeil Daws against. a loose
mandala and a shirt made from action
painting, and Eric Smith lets Tom Bass
look through holed canvas and news-
paper collages. Geoff Proud rejects such
flirtation with mod modernism and
with the aid of Expressionism thus
turns a cool prophet like Frank Wat-
ters into a ruddy Mo!
After that it’s dreary indeed; Pugh’s
head of Professor Chisholm sinks into
the gelatinous sludge and Bryan West-
wood’s Helen Blaxland is recoiling from
science-fiction tendrils encroaching on
her balcony; to dampen my spirits fur-
ther, Daniel Thomas, the curator, with
misplaced euphemism, says: “When you
die I hope you leave your archives to
a suitable institution.”
If the Archibald flirts with modern-
ism, the Wynne often vulgarises, the
worst example being Zusters’ revamp-
ing of Lloyd Rees’ fine panoramas.
Even if Herman retains some of his
former encounter of silhouette and
mass, it is hesitant and forms are too
prettified to be assertive; Fred Wil-
liams’ blue landscape is overworked,
making a mannerism of skirmishing
around underpainting. If you like a
more purposive, though conservative
and somewhat illustrative \\ r orks,
there’s Charles Bush’s family cart
under a dappled David Davies sky and
tangled woods, dun by Schlunke and
gay by Salmon; but it’s Gleghorn,
Salkauskas, Sheila McDonald, Earle,
Right, the summer crowd seems per-
fectly at ease with art
Kubbos, and Gay Warren who give
new dimensions to landscape; if the
Trustees could recognise symbolic
landscape then they might honor Salk-
auskas’ romantic terrain shrouded in
surging black clouds and pink vapor
veils. (The Trustees should not have
instituted a special watercolor prize—
Salkauskas’ could have taken the oil
or watercolor and should not have
accepted the Pring Bequest for a fe-
male watercolor. The Trustees gave
their prize to a pointless Kenneth Jack,
and the Pring prize, given to a lively,,
orientally smudged Joy Roggenkamp,
was challenged by Eva Kubbos.)
Apart from questions of validity,
what led Professor Smith to pass over
Louis James, Firth-Smith, or Roy
Jackson? Cec Burns’ crudely construc-
ted, inchoate set of three cones, ringed,
or checked, is a travesty of optical art
and its banal immaturity will be
clearly evident when the refined sub-
tleties of works by de Soto and Toma-
sello arrive at the Power Institute; but
Burns Has one virtue, his dedicated
single-mindedness. James’ beach bodies
are both Buchenwald and Bondi and
his message is a bit veiled in summer
haze; Firth-Smith’s splendid beach


scene is a little eclectic with Whiteley
swerves and a sunny Stella triangle of
vivid yellow attached, but it’s a beauti-
fully evocative piece with a beach awn-
ing in front (it should be hung at eye
level) and beach folk dreaming of the
collage heroes of the breakers farther
out; it has ironic and pictorial perspec-
tives seen nowhere else and only Cassab
is as visually alive to life and character.
Theatre
Rich mixture
By PHILLIP ADAMS
The Titillators. Helmut Bakaitis. La
Mama’s, Melbourne.
RECIPE for an experimental play: take
the foetid eroticism of Genet, add the
impending violence of Pinter, and mix
in some somniferous irony of Becket’s,
set in a Tunnel of Love, stage in a
dimly lit theatre, and produce vigor-
ously.
Helmut Bakaitis is a young actor who,
like other of La Mama’s children, uses
Europe’s avant-garde dramatists as his
models. There’s nothing wrong with
that, of course. Presumably young
Elizabethan dramatists, similarly in-
fluenced, turned out countless studies
of gloomy princes. The test that must
be applied is surely what the would-be
dramatist contributes of himself, and it
seems to me that Bakaitis has succeeded
only in mixing a thick brew from bor-
rowed ingredients. He has some skill,
but insufficient originality.
Already La Mama has produced a
young writer of significance in Jack
Hibberd. Hibberd uses Pinter’s devices
quite openly, but only to intensify his
observations of local idioms and re-
lationships.
Bakaitis, however, lacks a similarly
developed viewpoint. Admittedly he
hints at something of a religious con-
flict as the main character is a de-
frocked priest who is both a voyeur and
a fetishist. (As well, the poor man is
required to pray dressed in vestments
and a Mickey Mouse mask.) But the
theme is lost in the almost impenetrable
lushness of dramatic incidents, and
ultimately seems to be just another
piece of coloring.
The author/producer himself feels
the play suffers from being too intense
and would work more effectively if ex-
tended. My view is that the play should
be refined rather than lengthened.
Quivering with sexual guilt and
excitement, Malcolm Robertson was
the tormented ex-priest and Martin
Vaughan was his lip-licking colleague.
Designer Michael Hudson managed to
suggest the salacious gaiety of the fun-
park setting with commendable economy
and a few pieces of Pop.
Records
Singers' opera
By JOHN CARGHER
Tosca (Puccini) Birgit Nilssen, Franco
Corelli, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau,
Santa Cecilia, Rome, Orchestra and
Chorus conducted by Lorin Maazel.
Decca SETA 341/2 ($11.50).
AS A COMPLETE WORK “Tosca”
is probably Puccini’s best opera; it
has a continuity absent in “La Boheme”
and blessedly lacks the ludicrous plot
of “Madame Butterfly.” I therefore
find it more satisfying than either of
the others, though they do contain
better music here and there. There is
continuity and logical progression in
both music and libretto, yet at the
same time “Tosca” is undoubtedly a
singers’ opera. There is as much scope
for great singing and acting in all three
leading roles as there is in any other
work by any other composer. At the
same time there are Puccini’s famous
set pieces with at least three arias
which are in the whistling errand-boy
category. I can’t see what else anyone
can require from an opera.
When it comes to assessing the
present set in relation to past record-
ings the problems are multifold. Other
operas have never yet been recorded
satisfactorily and while this “Tosca” is
comparatively better than, for ex-
ample, any “Traviata” we have yet
had, it must bow in performance, if
not in recording, to earlier versions.
The 1953 Callas-Stefano-Gobbi-Sabata
recording remains supreme and the
pre-war Gigli-Caniglia-Borgioli cannot
be dismissed in spite of its age.
But a singers’ opera must be judged
by its principals. Birgit Nilssen is sur-
prisingly Italianate and vocally a con-
stant pleasure. It seems harsh there-
fore to carp that emotion rarely enters
the voice itself, it remains coldly per-
fect at the most yielding and most
dramatic moments; one almost longs
for the sob which is so rightly frowned
upon. Miss Nilssen will never be the
Callas of 1953, though she beats her
1965 performance hands down. Franco
Corelli continues to amaze. The voice
is magnificent and rough. Yet
Corelli is capable of producing a beauti-
ful mezza voce and occasionally does
so with superb effect. His Cavaradossi
is not faultless and far from that of
the young di Stefano or Gigli or Ber-
gonzi. But this is a valid interpretation
finely executed with a bigger voice
than the others ever owned.
Which leaves the major disappoint-
ment of the set, the Scarpia of Diet-
rich Fischer-Dieskau. There is such a
thing as being too versatile and too
übiquitous. Dieskau has now sung every
style of music and every type of role
and he has probably made more records
than any singer who ever lived. The
one thing he always lacked is volume,
and to pit himself against the two
biggest voices of our day was a mistake.
The result is ,a vocal roughness which
contrasts sharply with the smooth
quality which has been Dieskau’s
greatest asset over the years.
Films
Lumbering omnibus
By PHILLIP ADAMS
The Oldest Profession in the World.
Various directors.
LIKE LONELY HEART clubs, films
of this genre fulfil a lugubrious social
function, for they provide comfort for
the solitary and titillation for the
pubescent. The foyer’s posters offer
more meat than a butcher’s shop
window, with legs of Welch, a brisket
of Moreau, and some Martinelli rump.
And selfconscious men form quiet
queues at every session.
So much for sociology. The film
itself is one of those lumbering omnibus
jobs, in which six ill-assorted directors
struggle with as many lack-lustre scripts
in fore-doomed attempts at glandular
frivolity.
Things get underway with Franco-
Indovina’s look at prehistoric love, in
which an Altamira cave-painter leaves
off doing portraits of bison to create the
first painted lady. All concerned rush
around in mink bikinis, and the humor
is basic Flintstone.
Nothing funny happens on the way to
the forum in Bolognini’s Love Under
the Roman Empire, but things improve
for the French Revolution. Here
Philippe “The Joker” la Broca lets a
young student have one on the house
with Jeanne Moreau.
Love in 1900 is mainly of interest
because of the pneumatic Racquel
Welch. Hormones have been kind to
her, and Michael Pfeghaar directs her
effectively in a Maupassant-style anec-
dote about a prostitute who manoeuvres
a millionaire into marriage.
“Love in 1967” is about prostitutes
who operate from an ambulance, and it
isn’t even spirited enough to be a sick
joke.
The final episode is “Love in the
Future,” in which Jean Luc Godard
returns to Alphaville with Anna. Karina.
A visitor from an outer galaxy visits
a highly specialised, nationalised bor-
dello and requests some entertainment.
A sealed and mute beauty is delivered,
an expert in physical love. But the
client finds her mechanical approach
and total silence enervating, and rings
room service. What he wants, he
explains, is someone who can talk to
him. This time he gets Miss Karina,
who represents Spiritual Love.
I like the idea of Godard with his
iconoclastic attitude to the conventions
of narrative and his cheeky inventive-
ness. Yet, until now, his films have in-
variably irritated me beyond endurance.
This time he won me over.


Drought in Victoria
THIS IS NOT drought country, but
this is what drought can do, it seems, to
any part of Australia. There has never
been a drought like it in Victoria. Even
the oldtimers are unable to say you
should have been around here for the
last big dry, or the one before that, or
the one before that. While Melbourne
worries about its water supply and
Queensland and northern New South
Wales are troubled by floods, this has
been the recent picture in central and
western Victoria. It is a reminder that
while a. drought across the whole of
this sunburnt country of Australia is
extremely unlikely it is equally unlikely
that there is ever some part not in the
grip of a dry.
Top left, the huge, tree-edged lake in the distance is a mirage, an illusion
caused by hot sun on the parched Victorian landscape. Top right, cracked,
sun-baked mud is all that remains of Lake Lonsdale, central Victoria, once
one of the best trout-fishing grounds in the country. Bottom left, farmer Greg
O’Callaghan shows dry clay where there was once ten feet of water in his
dams. Bottom right, work being carried out on a new earthen dam at Calla-
wadda. The dam filled too quickly and one side broke away, but quick
thinking by a nearby farmer saved some of the water
Pictures by JOHN CA'RNEMOLLA


BOOKS
Strange love in Bloomsbury
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
Lytton Strachey: A Critical Biography.
Volume 1, The Unknown Years
1880-1910. Michael Holroyd. Heine-
mann. $7.35.
ON THE FACE of it, one would
scarcely have expected the thin, can-
tankerous, and somehow rather pitiable
life of Lytton Strachey to stretch to
two large volumes. The great vogue he
had following the publication of his
“Eminent Victorians” has passed, and
nowadays few under 40 know much
about him except, vaguely, as a Blooms-
buryite, sodomite, and friend of May-
nard Keynes. Yet Michael Holroyd’s
first large volume goes only up to 1910,
when Strachey was 30. I found it of
absorbing interest throughout, and
shall eagerly await its successor.
It would have been all too easy to
subject Strachey to the same sort of
treatment that he so effectively meted
out to Dr. Arnold, General Gordon,
and other Victorian worthies. He was
enormously vulnerable. Mr. Holroyd
has wisely resisted the temptation, and
contented himself with minutely follow-
ing Strachey’s life, especially as re-
vealed in his voluminous correspond-
ence.
I shudder to think what might have
been made of this material in less
meticulous hands; mine, for instance.
What ridicule could have been heaped
on the poor fellow, complaining end-
lessly and miserably 'of his piles, his
constipation, his boredom, his hope-
less love for Duncan Grant, not to
mention a Mr. Swithinbank, who ulti-
mately, to Strachey’s great distress, de-
camped to India, where he throve as
a civil servant. On their first acquaint-
ance Strachey described Swithinbank
as “tall and rather large-footed and
essentially solid . . . The expression is
often cat-like the eyelids droop and
the mouth broadens; the features are
all well shaped, the nose arched. His
hair is fair and thick, his voice rather
thrill and boyish . . .”
Such homosexual loves invite deri-
sion at least as much as the pomposi-
ties of a headmaster of Rugby over
which Strachey made so much sport to
the delight of his contemporaries. Mr.
Holroyd is more compassionate than
his subject, toward whom his attitude
is consistently chilly but sympathetic.
He overlooks nothing, condones noth-
ing, and condemns nothing; just re-
counts it all in a lucid, objective, and
often amusing way.
One gathers that on the whole he is
well disposed to the Bloomsbury posi-
tion (in so far as it ever existed,
cogently and particularly), but not by
any means to the point of being a
zealot. If he does not share the con-
temporary reaction against “precious-
ness,” G. E. Moore-ianity, and adula-
tion of Cambridge, rather than Galilee,
Apostles, he is equally disinclined to
look back on gatherings chez Clive and
Vanessa Bell as a departed glory.
Incidentally, it gave me great pleasure
to note in many of his attitudes and
judgments strong traces of the influence
of Hugh Kingsmill, the subject of his
first published work.
Strachey belonged to one of those
huge expiring late-Victorian upper-
middle-class families which always seem
to me to have gone on multiplying ex-
cessively in a desperate, but unavailing,
effort to maintain their ascendancy.
They created a sort of mini-population
explosion whose surplus births have
provided hordes of consenting adults,
crackpot leftists and rightists, dolts,
defectors, and dadas; all the bizarre,
and sometimes asphyxiating, exhaust
which a ruling class on the run exudes
on its crazy downhill course.
Strachey was a classic case; his gro-
tesque and sickly physique, his high-
pitched voice, his congenital homosexu-
ality, his doting and interfering mother,
and his taciturn and aloof father, his
longing to be successful and important
combined with an ’infallible flair for
appearing absurd, if not repugnant, in
the eyes of those who might have
advanced his fortunes it was all a
formula for frustration and ignominy,
breeding the intensity of feeling out of
which his hopeless loves and his deadly
prose were alike shaped.
The Stracheys, like the Butlers, the
Trevelyans, the Cottons, and many
another such family, had been
closely associated with India; the Raj
offered quick wealth and quick honors,
and they were studded with Stars of
India. As Mr. Holroyd acutely shows,
Strachey longed to cut a figure in the
world in keeping with this family tradi-
tion. His first sustained literary work
was a long apologia for Warren Hast-
ings which he regarded as in some sense
an act of filial piety. And his revolt
against his family’s accepted standards,
such as it was, derived rather from
weakness than strength. Even his homo-
sexual passion was directed, more often
than not, toward the resolute and suc-
cessful; he worshipped in his loves,
even, I dare say, in Swithinbank, the
qualities he felt to be lacking in himself,
and so was the more likely to be
scorned, or at any rate misunderstood,
by them.
It is his minute tracing of the ebb
and flow of these homosexual passions
that provides the most original part of
Mr. Holroyd’s study of Strachey; also,
I fear, as far as I’m concerned, the
most humorous. The effect is almost
Proustian in its detail and strange
poignant fatuity, and all produced in
Strachey’s own words, taken from his
letters —he always had a particular con-
fidant to whom he poured out every-
thing; initially, Leonard Woolf, then
Keynes, then his brother James —or
from the flat-footed verses he wrote to
relieve his feelings, and considered to
be his best hope of immortality.
The pivotal relationship was between
himself and Keynes; it was from Keynes
Lytton Strachey ... poignant fatuity
that he acquired Swithinbank, from him
that Keynes snitched, first, Sir Edgar
Duckworth, Bart (Dicker), and then
the fondest of all Strachey’s loves
Duncan Grant. “Oh, Lord, Lord, why
do we live in such a distorted, coagu-
lated world?” he wrote to dearest Dun-
can when the full enormity of his adul-
terous relationship with Keynes first
broke upon him, adding: “I feel all
topsy-turvy and out of place, as if I
were a pocket-handkerchief that some-
body had dropped on the top of Mont
Blanc.” He went on a voyage of re-
covery up to Scotland with his brother
James, who was himself stricken as a
result of his “dumb, deaf, and blind
adoration” of Rupert Brooke. The two
of them mingling their tears over their
lost loves on the Isle of Skye must have


HISTORICAL AUSTRALIAN
REPRINTS
A descriptive fist of Australian prints
and maps is now available on request.
AVON PRINTS,
P.O. Box 208, POTTS POINT, 2011.
WHITELEAF HOTEL
<>6/68 Inverness Terrace, London W 2
Park 0681 Small Luxury Hotel BAYswater 1826
Full Central Heating, Radio and internal
telephone in all rooms. Near parks, Bays-
water/Queensway Tube Stn..
Bed and Breakfasi
$4 and $5 single or $6 with private toilet
and shower. Double $8 or $lO with private
toilet and shower.
Brochures Airmailed
presented a tragi-comic spectacle whose
finer points will have escaped the
Islanders.
One may be grateful (for once) to
the permissive climate of the times
which has made it possible for Mr.
Holroyd to describe these homosexual
affairs with so much frankness and in
so great detail; even a few years ago,
especially in view of the eminence that
Keynes subsequently attained as the
capitalist system’s salvage-officer-in-
chief, he would have felt bound to fall
back on hints and innuendo. Strachey
himself would seem to have been incap-
able of feeling even the tiniest twinge
of desire for a female, and in his one
essay in that field his proposal of
marriage to Virginia Stephen (later
Woolf), impulsively made, and, on
acceptance, at once withdrawn he
cut a decidedly foolish figure.
Cambridge, which he visited with
sick constancy, distressed him with “the
beauties who are everywhere and ravish
one’s heart in the most unpleasant man-
ner.” Clearly he did not mean the
Backs. Or did he? “It’s madness,” he
wrote to Keynes, “for us to dream of
making dowagers understand that feel-
ings are good when we say in the
same breath that the best ones are
sodomitical,” and gees on:
“If we were crafty and careful I
dare say we’d pull it off. But why
should we take the trouble? On the
whole, I believe that our time will come
a hundred years hence, when the
preparations will have been made, and
compromises come to, so that, at the
publication of our letters, everyone will
be, finally, converted.”
Well, only half a century on, thanks
to Mr. Holroyd, quite a lot of what’s
in their letters has been published, and
Strachey and Keynes, surveying the con-
temporary scene, would have no reason
to feel discouraged.
Intellectually speaking, they had no
doubts about their own immeasurable
superiority, though for both of them
their great triumphs lay ahead
Keynes’ with his “Economic Conse-
quences of the Peace” and Strachey’s
with his “Eminent Victorians.” In one
of his more manic moods Strachey
wrote:
“I sometimes feel as if it were not
only we ourselves who are concerned,
but that the destinies of the whole
world are somehow involved in ours.
We are oh! in more ways than one
Athenians of the Periclean Age. We
are the mysterious priests of a new and
amazing civilisation . . . What is hidden
from us? We have mastered all. We
have abolished religion, we have
founded ethics, we have established
philosophy, we have sown our strange
illumination in every province of
thought, we have conquered art, we
have liberated love. It would be
pleasant to spend our days in a per-
petual proclamation of our magnifi-
cence.”
Pleasant indeed, but the proclama-
tion, when it came, was to be from un-
Athenian lips and in un-Periclean
accents —in Stalin’s thick Georgian, in
Hitler’s harsh German, in Mussolini’s
ranting Italian: from the throats of all
those heroes of our time who rose,
phoenix-wise, from the cold ashes to
which their Victorian forebears had
been reduced.
India's defences
By SIBNARAYAN RAY
India’s Quest For Security. Lome J.
Kavic. University of California Press.
INDIA’S MILITARY humiliation by
China in October-November, 1962,
dramatically exposed the basic short-
comings of India’s defence policy. These
lay not so much in India’s moral pos-
tures in international relations as in
Nehru’s failure to guide the country’s
search for security in the context of the
changed geo-politics of contemporary
Asia.
Kavic’s book, which is more descrip-
tive than analytical, relates the story of
this failure and of subsequent efforts
to retrieve the situation. He begins with
a brief account of the defence policies
of British India, which were directed
toward building two ring fences in the
north, the inner ring stretching from
the northwest frontier through Nepal,
Bhutan, and Sikkim to the tribal areas
in north and north-east Assam, and
the outer ring comprising the Persian
Gulf sheikdoms, Persia, Afghanistan,
Tibet, and Siam. Since the Indian
Ocean was dominated by the British
Navy, and since the States immediately
beyond India’s frontiers were relatively
small or weak, the measures were, on
the whole, adequate. However, the two
world wars, especially the second,
demonstrated the relatively limited mili-
tary capabilities of India without major
external help.
The Indian Nationalist movement was
naturally opposed to the British defence
efforts, but, after gaining independence,
India’s political leaders could no longer
avoid confronting the problems of
national security. Although Nehru con-
tinued to maintain that India was
secure against attack by its size and
population, its geo-strategic position,
and the international balance of power,
and, although his non-alignment policy
seemed to reflect this belief, he, at the
same time, recognised that defence pre-
parations were unavoidable, and in
spite of his Gandhian political upbring-
ing, he did not hesitate to employ mili-
tary measures where he thought these
to be necessary to protect India’s
national interest.
As a matter of fact, between 1947
and 1962, India expended on defence a
sum exceeding $U.5.6300 million; this
meant an average of about 25 percent
of the annual current expenditure of the
Union Government. Kavic also points
out that while in 1947 India’s Army
personnel of all categories numbered
about 280,000, by 1962 the figure had
risen to 550,000. Thus neither India’s
profession of superior political morality
nor its preoccupation with planned
economic development prevented the
Government from strengthening the
country’s military capabilities.
However, unlike in most other newly
independent Afro-Asian States, in India
there has been a stable subordination
of the military establishment to the
civil power. This is one of the more
hopeful features of modern India in-
herited from the British. It was the
civil authority under Nehru’s leadership
which took an unbalanced view of
India’s security problems. The main
threat was believed to come from Pakis-
tan, while the much more serious
danger from Communist China was
largely neglected. As Kavic rightly ob-
serves, “Nehru relinquished India’s in-
herited treaty rights in Tibet without
even seeking to acquire some sort of
equivalent. He hesitated to take firm
counter-measures in the Himalayas for
fear of provoking Peking, even though
Peking appeared to act without any
similar inhibition. Nehru’s actual
measures, once undertaken, were so
cloaked in secrecy as to have minimal
deterrent effects; his generally passive
response to China appeared to have
the effect of encouraging, rather that
deterring, that country’s rulers.”
India’s failure to appreciate that, in
the power vacuum created by the dis-
integration of Western empires in Asia.,,
the main threat to its national security
came from the red Napoleonic ambi-
tions of Communist China explains
India’s unpreparedness at the time of
the Chinese attack of 1962. Yet Mao’s
China had not only given repeated
notice of its expansionist aims; after
taking over Tibet it had started speedy
road-building along the entire Hima-
layan frontier. Nevertheless, even after
the Dalai Lama’s flight to India in 1959,
Nehru’s efforts to strengthen the tradi-
tional inner-ring fence continued to be
cautious and limited. He rejected off-
hand the policy outlined by General
Cariappa, a former Commander-in-
Chief of the Indian Army, of seeking
defence co-operation with Pakistan
against China.
Since the traumatic experience of
1962, India’s defence and foreign poli-
cies have been undergoing important
changes. Kavic discusses some of them
in his concluding chapters. The five-


MATEUS ROSE
rc
u
*1 *1
f
If
1
The enchanting Pink Wine
from Portugal with its
gorgeous amber tint and
gentle suggestion of sparkle.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: TAYLOR FERGUSON & CO. PTY. LTD
P.O. BOX 50, CLIFTON HILL, VICTORIA
year defence-development program
sanctioned in early 1964 includes crea-
tion of an 825,000-man army and
modernisation of its weapons and
equipment; stabilisation of the Air
Force at 45 squadrons and its re-
equipment with modern aircraft; rapid
development of defence industries; con-
struction and improvement of com-
munications in the border areas; and
expansion of defence-research organisa-
tion. More important, China is now
recognised as the major threat to India’s
security. The fear of Pakistan, of course,
remains, but the brief war of 1965
having demonstrated Pakistan’s vul-
nerability, the more serious danger is
seen to be that of a possible Sino-
Pakistan collusion against India. Mili-
tary views are being given much
greater prominence in planning strategy.
There is growing recognition of the need
for India to play a bigger role in the
defence of South-East Asia.
Kavic’s book gives a useful survey of
India’s evolving defence policies since
independence. Its main weakness is that
it does not offer a critical analysis of
the factors which inhibited and distorted
India’s appraisal of contemporary geo-
politics. His survey, however, provides
a good starting point for others who
may attempt such analysis.
The film-makers
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Losey on Losey. Tom Milne. Seeker
and Warburg. $1.90.
Godard. Richard Roud. $1.90.
Visconti. Geoffrey Nowell-Smith. $1.90.
THE PAPERBACK BOOM in film
books seems to be reaching a peak,
with excellent releases from Studio
Vista, Zwemmer and A. S. Barnes, and
now Seeker and Warburg, which has
collaborated with the British Film Insti-
tute to bring out a series of books on
individual directors. Penelope Houston,
editor of “Sight and Sound,” and the
first-rate film critic of “The Spectator,”
is in charge, and the first three books
issued are written by regular con-
tributors to her magazine.
The books on Visconti and Godard
are sometimes heavy going, chiefly
because of a lack of color in the text,
that extra ounce of journalist’s flair we
look for in writing about popular art
forms. But they are packed with infor-
mation, and if Visconti still seems often
a ponderous craftsman and Godard
sketchy and scrappy, still very much
the dilettante of urban experience, the
writers’ enthusiasm ensures one’s re-
spectful if distant attention.
“Losey on Losey” is more fascinating;
Joseph Losey ... insight into a film-
maker’s world
during ten days, Tom Milne managed
to pin the director down to a series of
very close discussions of his work. Losev
has always been a director willing to
talk about his films at the drop of a
clapper-board, and he is one of the very
few men subjected to a high-pressure
interview by “Cahiers du Cinema’s”
eager-beavers who can out-chat his
interlocuters. The critic coming neat to
his oeuvre, ignorant of French or
Losey’s own published film-criticism,
might be forgiven for regarding him
simply as a melodramatist with a pro-
nounced visual flair, phony and obscur-
antist, as self-consciously knowing as,
say, Chabrol. But he would be quickly
slapped down by Losey’s admirers.
Perhaps the most fascinating aspect
of Milne’s book is the insight it gives
into the endless problems that beset a
film-maker, the battles with producers
and distributors and laboratories, the
appalling struggle to get a personal
vision intact on to the screen. A writer
can simply tap away at a machine, a
painter apply brush to canvas, but a
director has to compete with a thou-
sand imponderables, mainly presented
by reality itself: by weather quirks, by
the behaviour of performers, by the
peculiarities and eccentricities of tech-
nicians. Moreover, color laboratories
can alter the whole look of a scene, so
that a Rembrantesque effect can come
out drenched with all the vivid light
of a Renoir.
Losey also gives fascinating accounts
of the blacklist period, which drove him
out of Hollywood and to several years
of operating under a pseudonym. The
atmosphere of terror that followed the
“naming of names” by witch-hunters of
Communists has seldom been caught
with such apt brevity.
From the simple directness and
urgency of his “The Prowler” to the
inflated pretension of his recent English
films (though “Accident,” and parts of
“The Servant,” were technically dazz-
ling), Losey draws us through the mazes
of his craft with hypnotic intensity, and
Mr. Milne has coaxed him ably.


Li tide man's
AUSTRALIA'S
GREATEST
PRIZEWINNERS
CELLAR
MASTER
The way to make
a wine boom
go bust
STEVE ZANTIOTIS is responsible
for the present wine boom. Among
others, of course, but he does repre-
sent the new generation of wine-lover.
Born in Australia, of Greek parents,
Steve Zantiotis consumed very little
alcohol until he was over 30 years old,
but two years ago he caught the wine
bug. As a Bulletin reader he saw this
column, and also started reading other
articles about wine. He became so
Interested he went to tastings and lec-
tures and eventually attended two wine
instruction courses. He joined the
Beefsteak and Burgundy Club and
the Wine and Food Society. Finally,
he cleared the area underneath his
home and began to collect wine.
He did not go in for home bottlings
or quaffing lines. Instead, he went for
quality, for those proven styles and
makes that represent the top and near-
top wines of the country. Today he
has more than 1500 bottles of high-
quality wine in his cellar. All of
which is of interest but of no shattering
consequence—except that Steve Zan-
tiotis is thoroughly fed up with some
sections of the Australian wine
industry.
“Why is it,” he asks, “that the wine
industry is trying to make me stop
drinking Australian wine? I have been
collecting certain styles that appeal to
me. I’ve bought them all at reason-
able prices. Yet in the past three
months or so prices have gone up
so much I can no longer afford to
buy them. I shall probably give the
whole thing away.”
So I examined a few lists and in-
spected retail cellars, shops, and bottle
departments to see what is happening.
At most of these places wine is being
sold at the prices set by the wine com-
panies. A few have held back certain
lines to acquire some age and have
rightly put an annual margin on the
original price. However, some of them
displayed quite recent releases at
exorbitant levels, and said the wine
firms keep raising their prices so why
shouldn’t they do the same.
One publican had another story. He
is celebrated for his cellar and reason-
able prices. Weeks ago I bought from
him a top Hunter ’59 for less than $2
a bottle. Today the same wine is
labelled $3. I asked him why. “Well,
it’s a funny thing, but the wine reps
suggested I should. I had a Victorian
Cabernet I bought a year or so ago. It
was fairly pricy, so I sold it for $2.25.
Then the rep walked in and said the
winemaker was charging $4 for it and I
would be a fool not to do the same.
Then I’ve always sold a fair bit of
these (indicating the wines of one of
our thriving middle-sized companies)
and have held them back a year or so.
I bought some of their Cabernet a little
over a. year ago and paid less than $1
a bottle. Over the months I’ve put it
up to $1.75. Now the rep tells me the
latest vintage, four years younger than
my wine, is being sold at $2.60. He
asked me to put my price up to $3, so
that his prices wouldn’t look silly. What
should I do?”
I suggested he stick to his original
plan. The customer will appreciate his
integrity even if the company con-
cerned doesn’t. For the customer is no
fool. He knows the shortage of top
reds could last for some time, and
is aware that the industry is justified
in raising many prices, and that these
were overdue, but he is also aware
that some companies and merchants
have taken advantage of the situation
in the most flagrant manner.
I even heard of one company asking
its sales staff what maximum price the
market could bear and then altering its
lists to match the suggestions. I do
not suggest they are all of this nature.
I have been impressed by the level-
headed and far-sighted attitude of some
of our biggest firms who have made
only minor adjustments. They are
aware that this country has the chance
to become an important wine-making
nation based on local consumption
alone. The figures released last month
reveal that we now average one and
a half gallons each per year. Some
months ago I suggested that by the
late ’seventies this could be five gallons
per head. It won’t be if prices con-
tinue to go up. I also said that people
would learn to pay more for the better
wines. I didn’t know how quickly this
would be realised. And I didn’t realise
how many ordinary wines would claim
these prices because of the jumping on
the wine wagon.
It could easily be the banned wagon.
There is a growing interest in im-
ported wine. Some very drinkable wine
is being brought in for less than $2 a
bottle and some very good wine, in-
deed, can be bought at some of the
prices I have mentioned before. I know
of several merchants who are going
overseas this year to find sources of
supply other than the great traditionals.
I saw some of these wines last year
and know how reasonable they are.
Please understand that I am in favor
of top prices for top wine. Maximum
scales have been too low for years. But
there is no reason, other than that of
avarice, why some quite ordinary wines
should cost what they do today. Having
helped create the wine boom, I am still
all for it. But Steve Zantiotis and I
can no longer afford to stay with it.
CONNOISSEUR
TABLE WINES
NOTES FROM LINDEMAN'S
CELLAR MANAGER:
The Commonwealth Statistician has just
released details of consumption of wine
in Australia for 1966/67, by State and
by Type, and the document makes fas-
cinating reading.
Per capita consumption has increased
from 1.34 gals to 1.5 gals per head, and
much of the total increase is due to this
factor rather than to total population
increase. No doubt the increasing quality
of all Australian table wines has en-
couraged existing wine drinkers to drink
more wine more regularly, and this is
extremely reassuring to quality wine
houses such as Lindemans who have
embarked on a programme of vineyard
expansion to produce more and more
quality matured-in-the-bottle table wine.
New South Wales has made wine drink-
ing history by becoming the first State
to consume more table wine than sherry
and dessert wine, 50.3 percent compared
with 49.7 percent. The Australian aver-
age is 42.7 percent compared with 57.3
percent.
South Australia holds pride of place on
a per capita consumption basis, 2.85 gals
but is slightly behind N.S.W. in dis-
crimination re table wines.
Sweet Sherry is still the largest individual
wine selling type, 26.3 percent of the
Australian market; the next largest being
Dry Red with an 18.2 percent share.
Adding dry sherry as well, sherry repre-
sents over 35 percent of the market, so
that it will be some time before the
social programme includes a Claret Party
instead of a Sherry one.
No dissection of sales is made showing
flagon or bulk wine against matured-in-
the-bottle wine, and no doubt much of
the table wine increase is due to the
availability of low priced flagons. How-
ever, it is inevitable that such consump-
tion stimulates the demand for quality
bottled wine, as the individual becomes
more discriminating.
It is here that Lindemans are the leaders
in the field. This year will see the re-
lease of very substantial quantities of
superb old Lindeman Dry Reds, whilst
the following are some of the Dry Whites
currently available.
1967 RIESLING
BIN 3255 — HUNTER VALLEY
A superb Riesling from Lindeman’s
Hunter River Vineyards. Fresh, clean
and delicate, with strong grapy flavour
and “Hunter” character.
1967 WHITE BURGUNDY
BIN 3270 — HUNTER VALLEY
Made from Semilion grapes grown at
“Ben Ean” Vineyard in the Hunter River
Valley. A double GOLD MEDAL WIN-
NER 1967 Brisbane and Adelaide Shows
as a 1967 White Burgundy.
1967 SPATLESE MOSELLE
BIN 3290 — CLARE VALLEY
From late nicked Rhine Riesling grapes
grown at Clare, S.A. Very fruity and
grapv on the nose and palate.


LETTERS
The Liberal Party in W.A.
I have had brought to my notice a
statement headed “Another Ultima-
tum” on page 9 in the January 6 issue
of The Bulletin.
I want you and your readers to
know that this statement is grossly
untrue.
For example, there has never been
any suggestion that the Liberal Party
in Western Australia would abandon
the Country Party if it gained enough
seats for a complete majority, say, at
the next election.
There has never been any suggestion
that my Minister for Local Govern-
ment and Town Planning, Mr. Logan,
should be removed, be “made scape-
goat,” or “sought as a patsy.” Nor
has anyone ever suggested that, if Mr.
Logan is not removed, I should re-
sign.
I am in a position to make these
statements categorically as Premier
and leader of the coalition Cabinet, as
the chairman of the joint meetings of
the Liberal Party and Country Party
Members in Parliament, and as one who
frequently attends State Council meet-
ings of the Liberal Party.
David Brand
Perth, W.A.
Premier of Western
Australia
Britain's non-policies
Peter Samuel (8., Jan. 13) accuses me
of being “far too deferential toward
those who talk economics.” Since the
only person I meet regularly “who talks
economics” is Mr. Samuel himself, I
can only assume that he labors under
the extraordinary misapprehension that
I am deferential toward him.
Geoffrey Fairbairn
Forrest, A.C.T.
The elections and the Poll
Denis Strangman (8., Jan. 13) over-
looked the established principle that
the only true comparison between a
prediction and an actual vote must be
based on people’s stated voting inten-
tion, excluding undecided people.
Gallup Polls on elections and referen-
dums are conducted a week before
voting day. Some people are then un-
decided. Others may change their minds
by voting day.
The Gallup Poll published that 60
percent (excluding 16 percent of un-
decided people) had said they would
vote “No” at the referendum about
increasing the size of Parliament. That
was almost exactly the actual vote.
That referendum, of course, was held
at the same time as another referendum
on ending discrimination against
Aborigines. The Gallup Poll predicted
that 94 percent would vote “Yes” on
that referendum. The actual vote was
91 percent.
World-wide experience has shown
that when two or more referendums
are held together, the results are usually
closer together than people’s voting in-
tentions, as recorded in Gallup Polls.
The Gallup Poll, therefore, pointed out
that the actual votes could be about
55 percent “No” for Parliament and
about 80 percent “Yes” for Aborigines.
If that had occurred, the Gallup Poll
would have been five percent wrong on
the referendum about Parliament. But
people voted almost exactly as 2000
people said they would nobody knows
why!
Roy Morgan
Melbourne, Vic.
Director, Australian
Gallup Poll
Money is not a commodity
The splendid article “Keeping the
World’s Money on the Move” (8., Jan.
13) emphasises the dire economic mess
likely to result from the present un-
satisfactory financial relations between
nations. And your writer justly con-
cludes that this state of affairs “should
be driving home to the world’s economic
leaders the urgent need for fundamental
changes in the whole international
monetary system.”
What can be done? To answer that,
the question to be dealt with is, surely,
what is wrong with the system? The
reply to this, I suggest, is twofold. 1.
The erroneous view that money is a
commodity. 2. The need to recognise
the real purpose of exports.
The first is an error that stems from
primitive times when cattle were used
as “money” (the word “pecuniary”
comes from the Latin “pecu,” meaning
cattle) and later when gold became
what economists call a “medium of
exchange.”
Thus arose the idea that money
needed to have intrinsic value, and
this notion still prevails in some minds,
despite the fact that today the vast
percentage of financial transactions are
settled by other forms of money, notes,
coin, and, predominantly, cheques.
Gold plays practically no part in
these settlements; it provides nothing
but a ghost-like sceptre that curbs our
activities. It is a limiting and unneces-
sary factor.
Naturally, the suggested alternative
as “paper gold” or “drawing rights,” if
based on gold to any degree, as they
would be, could not escape this incubus
and the inevitable breakdown.
We have to get right away from the
commodity angle of money; and at the
same time realise the true purpose of
exports as the second requirement.
It should foe obvious that the only
logical reason for the export of goods
is to acquire goods not producible
within the exporting country. If this
policy were pursued no financial deficits
could occur between nations, for the
money received for exports would then
be used to buy imports of a like value.
Sales and purchases would thus
equate. There would be no outstanding
balance to be settled in gold, sterling,
or U.S. dollars.
Unfortunately, due to the idea that
a “favorable trade balance” is essential
to a country, and in order to find
“markets,” this commonsense plan is
thwarted.
Each country now strives to sell
more than it buys, which inevitably
leads to trade deficits for some
countries, and the problems that plague
international finance.
These fundamental aspects must be
observed and treated if we are to escape
from the present dilemma. The mone-
tary system could then function
adequately and would be seen for what
it really is, a subsidiary factor, a
method of bookkeeping to record in
financial notation the volume of trade
between individuals and nations.
C. A. Haythorpe
N. Balwyn (Vic.)
Biography of Steele Rudd
Combining with a friend of mine, Mr.
Mackenzie, I am in the preparatory
stages of writing the biography of my
late father, Arthur Hoey Davis, better
known as “Steele Rudd.”
We have quite a lot of material on
hand, but would appreciate the assist-
ance of anyone who knows of any per-
sons who could provide matters of
interest such as letters, photos, etc., for
this particular work.
They could be assured that every
care would be taken.
Eric Davis
28 Eveleigh St.,
Wooloowin, Qld.
UNICEF cards
Following your article, “The Greeting-
Card Game” (8., Dec. 23), in which
you mention the lack of Australian
designs among UNICEF cards, I wish
to draw your attention to the fact that
one Australian-born artist, James
Farrell, has submitted a design for a
UNICEF Christmas greeting card.
The original painting formed part
of a successful exhibition he held in
July, 1967, at the Tasmanian Tourist
Bureau Gallery in Melbourne, when
much local interest was aroused by his
series of paintings of Melbourne’s
changing skyline. Although many offers
were received for individual paintings
he refused to break the set of six.
I hope during the next few months,
while he is overseas, his judgment
proves correct.
Mrs. M. M. Gordon
Box Hill South, Vic.


GROWING
WITH A NATION
Australian industry depends heavi 1
on electric power, and as industry
grows so do its demands for
energy. Olympic Cables pro-
vide a complete range of wires,
cables and flexibles for
every electrical use and
are constantly increas-
ing their capacity to
serve the needs of
the nation.
J
.4r'
m
raw
rs
iE^fj:
*i **'>'■'■-*+
t
V-'
V'r p T.
>V-~-
;::pj'''r. ,7r**
rr^-j
U
-V
* —n
‘-l-v.
CA
y
**
aw
=E
*v
4'i
L
3!
y»
II
»w*r**w
L?
*4
t
\ri
■h?
K
i /
s„
4t
v 7
AS"
!*W»
■*w>
<. >
X
r
o
pry
,j~
l
v
i*
J Vi
J
£
«?
Ta
■■i pfi
>%lif
&s 3
Ki
CD
\y
Olympic
CAB LE S
Olympic cables
help you live better electrically


KING SIZE CIGARETTES
lute
&S 5
4
4*
11
What a pleasant surprise
\\
when your tobacconist says
"That'll be 37C"
