

The Bulletin
JULY 27, 1968
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
mtfhn irIUP?
BLa» 1 3 'a ul
jg* IBgmmßß r> 11 k\W
ReaisteredinAusfralia^ortransmissionbypostasajiewspaper^Australia2sCjNlewZealand2sc^NewGuinea^


o
a*
':1
! hi
■ '
<
?
**
■
t
■SSN ■.
%
✓
a*'
3R
-y
/
' \ (M
* /
//.
A
>ll
In there is the knife, the heart-stopping knife. •
Transplanting a kidney, exchanging an eye, renovating
a heart. What does Dunlop contribute to this remote
miraculous world? Only a thousand essential items:
from countless miles of tubing to blood-preserving
bottle stoppers and non-conductive floor tiling.
But when brains are changed, when cancer is con- /
quered, when man is made fit at age 106? What then?
We’ll be there. We’ll be there contributing, assisting.
Our scientists have accepted this challenge of antici-
pating surgery’s needs. Tomorrow can’t come soon
enough for Dunlop; we’re inventing tomorrow today.
D466C
DUNLOP
LOOKS
YEARS
AHEAD!!


m
The superb Statesman range now includes the
dashing new LONG PANATELLA—IOc each, f
Internationally speaking ... .
STATESMAN
PANATELLAS
please
Statesman, a superior cigar, mildest on
the international scene.
Available in the New Long Panatella,
Panatella, Commodore Panatella and
four other preferred shapes. Statesman,
the appropriate cigar ...
internationally speaking.
STATESMAN
60 cents
PANATELLA
STATESMAN
Qror
COMMODORE
PANATELLA
50 cents
The Bulletin
VOL. 90 No. 4612
JULY 27, 1968
ESTABLISHED 1880
PLAYING THE
ART MARKET 28
COLUMNS
One More Week 5
Batman's Melbourne 6
Daphne Guinness 10
Comment 12
Speculator's Diary 49
The Chartist 55
Graham Kerr 77
AUSTRALIA 15
INTERNATIONAL 23_
SPECIAL FEATURES 35_
BUSINESS & THE ECONOMY 46
THE LAND 53^
INVESTMENT 55
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 68
BOOKS 74_
LETTERS 77
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney 2001—Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Box 4088. Phone: 2-0606.
Melbourne 3000 Newspaper House,
Collins Street. Phone: 63-3341.


7 Jeffrey Penfold Hyland talks about wine.
&
On ordering wine-the fears and the joys
How many times have you been
out to dinner with friends, and
because they know you’re interested
in wine, they say “Choose the wine
for us”.
If you feel slight pangs of panic
when this happens, don’t feel you are
alone. Because even people with
years of experience in wine are often
placed in the same predicament as
you find yourself now.
Though we realize that the old
‘rule’ “Red wine with red meats,
white wine with white meats” is not
really a rule, it is important to con-
sider how the taste of the wine you
select will go with the food you have
chosen. For example, grilled meats
and roasts with their pronounced
flavours seem better suited to the full
bodied taste of a good claret, while
delicate flavours (like most fish
dishes) are better teamed with a deli-
cate light wine like Dalwood Ries-
ling, Hock, or Chablis. You might
like to try a burgundy with roast
chicken . . . and Dalwood White
Burgundy with a steak. The only
right wine is the wine you like, but
remember, you don’t want either the
wine or the food to dominate. Let
them become perfect partners.
On the classic wine type
names what they mean
For many years some Australians
have attempted to get winemakers to
stop using French or German wine
type names to describe Australian
wines. However, nobody has yet pro-
vided a fully workable alternative. A
claret in Australia means a “claret”
styled wine. This means it is red, dry,
full bodied and has a characteristic
tannin finish in all, a similar style
of wine to “clarets” around the
world. Similarly, hock is like the
German white wines of the Rhine
Valley a Chablis or White Bur-
gundy like the white wines of
Burgundian France and a Cham-
pagne like the famous sparkling
wines from Rheims. Naturally, Aus-
tralian wines are different from their
overseas counterparts, but in descri-
bing the style of a wine the broad
characteristics identified with the
famous wine types the names used
are hard to better. Simply from the
“style”, you immediately have some
broad idea of what to expect when
you draw the cork and pour the wine
for yourself and your friends even if
you’ve never bought that particular
wine before.
Jeffrey Penfold Hyland
started with Penfolds
as cellar hand in 1928.
During the 1930’5,
he was employed as a
winemaker with Penfolds.
After serving with the A.I.F.
during the War, he rejoined
Penfolds, being made
a Director in 1951.
In 1963, he was
appointed Chief
Executive Director, and
in 1967, Chairman J
of the Board. M
1967 a
m
25iT6FLOi
PENFOLD
P W 1 455


One more week
OUR D1DGERIDOO
“YOU CAN’T GET too serious about
a building like this. How can you when
it is to be destroyed as soon as the
World Fair is over? At Expo 67 in
Montreal tenders were being called for
wrecking before the buildings were up.”
In his glowing, all-red Melbourne
office, architect Robin Boyd was explain-
ing the approach which he and James
MacCormack, senior architect of the
Commonwealth Department of Works,
have adopted in their design of Aus-
tralia’s $2 million pavilion at the 1970
Osaka World Fair.
“Apart from the cultural aspect, and
that, of course, will be treated seriously,
the pavilion will be a place of enter-
tainment, enlightened entertainment if
you like. This calls for a more frivo-
lous approach to architecture.” Mr.
Boyd said the idea of the Australian
exhibits would be to convey the impres-
sion that much was happening in Aus-
tralia; that Australia was full of ideas
but at the same time did take itself too
seriously. For this reason much use
would be made of comic effects.”
Given the huge numbers of visitors
expected each day—at least 40,000 —the
designers were faced with two choices:
either to let the crowds see a small part
of the total exhibits, or to put them
through a tightly timed prepared course
but with exposure to everything Aus-
tralia could offer.
While queuing under a suspended
mushroom-shaped anodised roof the
sightseers will watch introductory films
about Australian life on a circular
screen 12ft. high and, in all, 100yds.
long. They will then move on to a
conveyer belt inside a 200yd.-long tube.
The trip through the “space tube,” as
Boyd calls it, will take ten minutes,
a few minutes longer in off-peak times.
“The tube is really like an enormous
didgeridoo,” he said.
The visitor will pass each of the 40
plugged-in displays in a minute or a
minute and a half — enough to absorb
something of Australia’s contributions
to “World Progress and Harmony” (the
Fair’s theme) in the fields of natural
resources, science, industry, technology,
and human relations.
Visitors will be subjected to highly
dramatic optical and radio effects,
showered with color and, to a lesser
extent, with sound effects. “It will be
an absolute visual treat,” Boyd said.
“A true case of the medium being the
message. We wanted a complete con-
trast from the relaxed soft-sell atmos-
phere we used in Montreal.”
The displays will be grouped under
four principal sub-themes: Man, Man
and Nature, Man and the Man-made,
and, finally, Man and Man. Work on
immunology, the Snowy River scheme,
textiles, and a glamorised house interior
Robin Boyd...comic effects at Osaka
are examples of the sort of exhibits to
be staged.
The inspiration for the tube which
runs along one side of the main struc-
ture, the 128ft. rising arm, dubbed
the “skyhook,” originated from the
practical difficulty of building the
exhibits in Japan. That problem in
turn produced the idea of shipping the
displays in containers, and that gave
rise to the adopted solution of plugging
the containers into a cylinder which
could easily be built by Japanese
engineers.
Mr. Boyd said his tube was symbolic
of the plug-in concepts of modern tech-
nology to which the Japanese, in par-
ticular, were very attached. Both he
and MacCormack are excited about the
position of the Australian pavilion at
Osaka. It is immediately adjacent to
the main entrance and Kenzo Tange’s
enormous suspended roof. Tange, the
noted Japanese architect, has designed
the Fair grounds.
Boyd laughed at the suggestion that
the pavilion might clash with the sur-
rounding American, West German, and
French structures. “We had to design
to contrast, not to blend. Most countries
like to be pretty cagy and not let on
to the last minute what their designs
will be, so we really have no choice.”
CHANGING TIMES
“THE CANBERRA TIMES” recently
took the opportunity of the 50th
anniversary of universal suffrage in
Britain to ask some academics and
others what sort of mark they felt
women had made in politics here. The
idea lost some point, as “The Canberra
Times” had to explain, because it is
66 years since Australia achieved uni-
versal suffrage.
You get the feeling from “The Can-
berra Times” piece and some reviews
of recent British books on the suffrage
movement that there is little confidence
here that the granting of a vote to
women 16 years before it happened in
Britain (in South Australia’s case 24-
years) was really the genuine article.
How could we make such a change
before it was tried and tested some-
where else? How could we have de-
cided on such a step before sending a
delegation of parliamentarians to see
how they ordered such things in other
countries, likely and unlikely?
The remarkable thing seems to be
not that we achieved universal suf-
frage 66 years ago, but that it is only
66 years since we were quite confident
and capable of making our own de-
cisions on such matters.
WHO READS THE BULLETIN?
A SURVEY prepared recently for The
Bulletin’s advertising department
by a market-research company, Frank
Small and Associates, gives a picture
of The Bulletin’s readers that shows
that, whatever else they might be, they
are not the Australian equivalent of
the classic common reader of news-
papers in America, the Kansas City
milkman.
Apart from the fact that they haven’t
got much room for milk in a storage
space stacked with the five or six
varieties of alcohol they keep in their
homes, they are better educated than
American milkmen. Seventy per-
cent of them have enjoyed tertiary
education, and more than one in ten
has taken postgraduate studies (but
only three percent are university
students). There is one even more
brutal distinction, viz., 68 percent of
them are business or professional men
or Government officials, and of those
who are in business 86 percent are at
the executive level. Forty-one percent
of them come from households earning
more than $8000 a year, or — if you
prefer it that way—11 percent come
from households earning more than
$15,000 a year.
They seem to be using this money


predictably. Almost all of them have at
least one car; one in ten has three
cars. They have more than their fair
share of cameras, hi-fi stereo players,
tape-recorders, movie projectors, air-
conditioning, automatic dish-washing
machines, motor and sail boats, swim-
ming-pools, and private aeroplanes, and
less than their fair share of TV sets.
At the same time, some of them are
rugged individualists, keeping out of
the vogue. Twenty-five percent of them
do not own sporting equipment, four
percent come from households earning
less than $2OOO a year, 13 percent like
vodka, and some of the male readers
do not use deodorants.
Although they seem to find it hard
to keep still (more than half of them
have been overseas in the past five
years), they seem to find it necessary
to hang on to their copies of The
Bulletin (44 percent said they kept
The Bulletin in the house for more
than two months). But they do not keep
it to themselves. On- average, each copy
of The Bulletin is read by nearly four
people.
The Bulletin has what the survey
calls an unduplicated readership. The
nationally distributed paper with which
Bulletin readers seem to have most in
common is “The Australian.” Forty-
four percent of Bulletin buyers also
subscribe to, or regularly buy, “The
Australian”; 25 percent get the
“Financial Review”; 31 percent
“Time”; 33 percent “Reader’s Digest”;
14 percent “Newsweek”; and eight
percent “Rydge’s Business Journal.”
FRESH START
THOSE people who felt that Sydney’s
artistic life might collapse when there
was no Ozone cafe at Watson’s Bay to
take visitors like Iris Murdoch and
Marlene Dietrich to, and those more
simple souls who just like seafood, will
be cheered to know that the cafe re-
opens this week as Doyles on the Beach.
The Doyle family, far from feeling
usurpers, regard Michel Ray’s ten years
at the Ozone as an interregnum. “We’re
just coming back home,” said Mr. Peter
Doyle. “This spot has belonged to my
family for four generations—since my
mother’s grandfather built his fisher-
man’s hut on what w r as then Sir John
Robertson’s estate.” Grandfather New-
ton used to sell his catch by the beach,
and when the old place was rebuilt in
1903 the family started the cafe. Trade
died off during the Depression, but after
the war the first link in the Doyle chain
began there.
THE CASE OF ELIZABETH FARM
THERE ARE some faintly baffling
features about the establishment of the
Elizabeth Farm Museum Trust and the
gift to it by the N.S.W. State Planning
Authority of $25,000 so that the oldest
house in the country, Elizabeth Farm, at
Parramatta, may be acquired and pre-
served. The main feeling, however, is
one of depression, that this seems to be
one step back into the bad old days
when guardianship of our history and
natural assets was almost always in the
hands of what often seemed to out-
siders to be groups of people whose self-
importance was their chief qualification.
The N.S.W. Government took a firm
step to get control of some historic and
other places into professional and quali-
fied hands this year with its Parks and
Wildlife Act. Bare Island Museum, at
Botany Bay, where for a charge of 20
cents the public was able to inspect,
among other things, free posters from
oil companies, came under the act.
Vaucluse House Trust fought back, the
trustees claiming, as evidence of their
care, that their wives had spent much
time arranging flowers at the house.
However, so many letters appeared in
newspapers claiming wrong identifica-
tion of historic pieces at Vaucluse
House (the serial number of a square
piano was given as its date of origin)
that the trustees lapsed into silence.
But while the Parks and Wildlife
Authority is trying to bring professional-
ism to the fields under its control,
another Government 'body, the State
Planning Authority, which has at times
expressed its displeasure when councils
and other bodies don’t do as its experts
think they should, has handed $25,000
to a completely new body to restore
Elizabeth Farm, when the National
Trust is already charged under its Act
with a responsibility for historic build-
ings.
The National Trust has, of course,
nothing to say on this matter. Its
general policy has always been that it
does not want a monopoly; as long as
restoration or acquisition is in good
hands it is happy. It has been recalled
that in a television interview last year,
the chairman of the State Planning
Authority, Mr. Ashton, said he hoped
it would be possible for the SPA and
the National Trust to co-operate for
the acquisition and restoration of Eliza-
beth Farm. The National Trust, well
used as it must be to the difficulties of
dealing with public bodies, would
hardly have taken Mr. Ashton at face
value on that; but why did Mr. Ashton
make this statement?
The National Trust could hardly be
in agreement with Mr. Ashton’s state-
ment that the National Trust and the
Elizabeth Farm Museum Trust are
complementary rather than rival bodies.
The Elizabeth Farm Trust has on
formation six members, while the
National Trust in New South Wales
probably has at least 10,000. Not all
members of the Elizabeth Farm Trust
belong to the National Trust, and only
one, historian Mr. M. H. Ellis, is on a
sub-committee, the one which looks
after the tomb of Governor Macquarie
on Mull, Scotland.
The Elizabeth Farm Museum Trust
consists of members of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society and the Parra-
matta Trust. There is no doubt that
their intentions are the highest, but
there are no guarantees that they can
do the job, and no redress, or refund
of the taxpayers’ $25,000, or of the
$75,000 which the trust hopes to get
from the public to do the restoration,
if it is not done satisfactorily.
All their own work
Every nation has the right to a certain
percentage of fools and idiots.
— Commodore Solyanik of the Russian
research ship Van Gogh
A lot of people in my electorate are
saying I should go for Higgins. I’ve got
more of my Liberals in that electorate
than the Prime Minister has.
— Mr. Peter Howson, M!P
My father doesn’t. believe in political
dynasties.
— Miss Mary Calwell
I am not a bit concerned about my
political future.
— Dr. Jim Cairns, MP
I admit our education system has
deficiencies and other systems in parti-
cular respects are superior, but on
average we have nothing to be ashamed
of.
—N.S.W. Minister for Education, Mr. Cutler
Relations between Britain and Aus-
tralia are at their lowest ebb since body-
line bowling.
— Australian-born peer Lord Clifford
In foreign policy the augustan simpli-
fications of Sir Robert Menzies and the
cheery simplicities of Mr. Holt have
been replaced by the confused super-
ficialities of Mr. Gorton.
— Leader of the Opposition, Mr. Whitlam
Batman’s
Melbourne
THE COMPLETE
ANSWER
TO FRIGIDITY
YOUR CORRESPONDENT has just
driven several thousand miles between
Sydney and Adelaide. The motel
competition is bitter and they are fight-
ing it out on the basis of electrical
gadgets—hot-water jug for hot-water
jug, refrigerator for refrigerator, TV
for TV. The latest thrust is “electric
blankets on every bed.” When first we
saw such a sign we pulled up almost
with a screech of rubber.
Regrettably, at this motel the supply
of power points was not keeping pace
with the rise in the electrical standard
of living. It took a little artistry to be
able to work the electric jug, refrig-
erator, TV, bed light, and electric
blanket all off the one power point.
Wires were everywhere and one had
to step out of bed with great care or
one was likely to be embroiled in a
terrible cataclysm of Nescafe, tea-bags,,
refrigerator, and “Peyton Place” all
mixed up together.
The 'blanket on the bed was a rela-
tively unsophisticated model with three


z
45
l
4
pp
'?[] "
a
»0 f
.t:.
i «•
Lap?:
. I
Prove it
with a
Black Panther
Brandy and Coke:
(Also known as
a Black Panther)
One ounce Brandy.
Then ice.
(Careful not to splash)
Now add Coca-Cola.
Look over your shoulder
with this one-it has a nice
habit of sneaking up.
Most women haven’t
thought of this yet.
Be a gentleman,
tell them.
COCA-COLA IS BOTTLED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA BY INDEPENDENT BOTTLING COMPANIES UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.
•COCA-COLA” AND “COKE” ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.
15.2313


When a business trip to Newark
means leaving just when you
want to be at home, its nicer to go
with someone you know.
a
;
'
V
So you’re flying on business to the U.S.A. and flying, to you, is just the quickest
way to get there and back home again. Then forget about shopping round a whole
lot of airlines. The one you know best, the one who knows you, can get you there any day
of the week. We know most things you want without being told. And however
often you go, it’s still nice to go with someone you know.
GLAJVIVtS
is someone you know
QANTAS FLIES OUT 8 TIMES A WEEK TO SAN FRANCISCO AND (WITH BOAC) OFFERS DAILY FLIGHTS THROUGH TO NEW YORK AND LONDON.
WHILE IN THE U.S.A. MAKE USE OF THE BIG SAVINGS OFFERED BY THE U.S. TRAVEL SERVICE DISCOUNT CARD—SO% SAVINGS ON DOMESTIC AIRLINE
TRAVEL, 40% ON SELECTED HOTELS; SAVINGS ON OTHER SERVICES, TOO. SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT FOR DETAILS, OR 'PHONE QANTAS.
QANTAS, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, BOAC and S.A.A., Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney 2000, 'phone 2-0369; BQBR-1
Canberra, 48-1411; Melbourne, 63-0151; Brisbane, 31-2141; Townsville, 6901; Adelaide, 51-7855; Perth, 23-1564/5/6; Hobart, 2-7031; Darwin, 3350/1.


NO FIXED TERM
No waiting for declaration of
a dividend. The Society pays
6% p.a. on No Fixed Term
with no deductions.
Interest is paid twice yearly.
St. George & Cronulla Per-
manent Building Society Ltd.
backs your investment with
$47 million in assets. Make
your savings grow 6% p.a.
net. Start an investmenttoday.
BITLDINft
WTF.E FUND
.mvis'S*
Funds guaranteed for withdrawal
up to $lO,OOO per investor.
The progressive building society.
ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT
BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville. Phone 579 1041, 57 0201.
82 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Phone 28 2801.
Bankstown: Restwell & Raymond Streets.
Phone 709 2466
Bondi Junction: 450 Oxford Street.
Phone 38 3196
Chatsyvood: 39 Spring Street.
Phone 41 3570
Miranda: 551 The Kingsway.
Phone 524 6466
Parramatta: 167 Macquarie Street.
Phone 635 4574
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office
Please send free, comprehensive
literature to:
Name:
Address:
P/CODE
B Y 209
controls, one, two, and three. For
those of you in the minority who do not
have electric beds, the usual thing is to
go to bed on three, then gently ease
back on the accelerator and perhaps
doze off on one. We were so excited
at seeing an electric blanket again we
forgot to de-accelerate, went to sleep on
three, and woke at 2 a.m. in the midst
of a nightmare all about the hot place
we are destined to go to anyway.
As a result of this, on reaching Mel-
bourne it seemed a sensible idea to
investigate the electric-blanket business.
Business is remarkable. Whenever one
turns on the radio, a warm, sexy female
voice says, “Sleep warm all night with
Linda.” “Linda” happens to be an
electric blanket. Mr. Ron Thomas,
deputy marketing manager of Ralta,
the people who make “Linda,” said
700,000 electric blankets would be sold
in Australia this year. Two years ago
the figure was 300,000. Four years ago
it was practically none. This was the
biggest boom in any electrical appli-
ance since the arrival of television.
There was a very high “home penetra-
tion”—about 75 percent, passing even
the refrigerator. Indeed, they were
doing better than refrigerators, because
you could not provide fridges for every
member of the family, but they were
doing this with electric blankets.
It is interesting to note the effect of
the boom on Melbourne. A psychiatrist
in Spring Street now has an electric
blanket on the traditional couch. It is
quite remarkable what patients will tell
when it is turned up to three.
One store in town has been running
a sort of electric-blanket festival. They
had six beds in a row, all fitted with a
different proprietary brand of electric
blanket with such exotic names as
“Sleepwarm,” “Riviera,” and “Peter
Pan.” Naturally, all beds were on three,
so one could go from bed to bed test-
ing which was the most deliciously
warm. All six companies had their own
sales staff present, so as one went from
“Mother, I’m coming home! He’s
made the big switch to electricity!”
bed to bed they gave each other savage
electric looks.
There were double blankets, 60in. x
54in., with twin controls. The husband
on one side has his control panel and
the wife on her side has her control
panel, so they can cook themselves elec-
trically. Apparently twin-control elec-
tric blankets have saved many a mar-
riage. It has been found that wives
almost invariably prefer higher settings
and extra cooking to husbands. Now,
with the new models, they can live
better, electrically, together.
Then there is the model with auto-
matic transmission. It has a thermostat.
Instead of going up to three it goes up
to nine, and you can set the bed for a
very precise temperature and it will
stay on that all night. One lady sales
assistant reported these electric blankets
were very popular with footballers for
soothing injured ligaments, and . she
offered to name a number of footballers
who would shrink at the idea of ever
again stepping between cold sheets. She
knew of one electric blanket that worked
24 hours a day. The husband worked
on night shift. The wife worked during
the day. So they changed over in the
evening and the blanket never cooled.
Then there were the pet lovers. There
were warming pads 12in. x 16in. for
$l2 or so, ideal for one’s dog or cat.
However, for large dogs they were not
big enough, and our lady said many
people paid for a proper, full-sized elec-
tric blanket. No doubt an intelligent
dog would learn quickly to handle the
controls between one and three.
In the United States, electric blan-
kets frequently are on top of the bed.
Here one always sleeps on top of the
blanket. According to Mr. Thomas, the
under-the-'body blanket is the one that
is approved. It is cheaper, to make and
safer. For a time, one mattress firm
did have a mattress with the blanket
'built into the bed, but it didn’t work
out. Thereupon he listed other ideas.
He said there was a car blanket that
plugged into the cigarette lighter. There
was an electrically heated tractor
jacket which also ran off the battery.
This was marvellous for ploughing on
winter mornings. Battery operated
electric socks had been available. Mr.
Thomas was a little contemptuous of
electric socks. He said they were just a
gimmick. However, he was all in favor
of the electric slippers.
He said actually you get only one
slipper and both feet go into it. It
comes with a 9ft. lead which plugs into
the main. He agreed that it was never
wise to rush off too quickly in your
electric slipper. Unquestionably, elec-
tric slippers will be the next round in
the motel battle.
Meanwhile, your correspondent,
while not possessing electric slippers,
has electric blankets on every bed. They
are a particular advantage when guests
stay too late. Before we used to say
crudely, “Are the milk bottles out?”
Now with rather more polish one is
able to ask, “Darling, are the electric
blankets on?” And she replies, “Yes,
everyone is on three.”


If you think
uniforms
can be made
from any old
fabric...
think
again
Most people don't realise how im-
portant the fabric is in uniforms ...
until they see one that's been worn
a few times! The most important
part of a uniform is the fabric; and
this is exactly why we created
Cesarella ... the best uniform
fabric. Cesarella is a soft, silky
miracle fabric that is perfect for
today's trend to style and fashion in
uniforms. Easily laundered, drip-
drys overnight to original, lustrous
beauty and it's permanently pleat-
able too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance
offices, Cesarella means more
beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. See the wide range of
colours, just call your uniform
supplier or phone Caesar Fabrics
Ltd., in your state. And do it now!
QmMt
THEFASHION'S THERE, TO STAY
made from
"TO ra HP tetoron*
65% POLYESTER" FIBRE 35% Viscose
by the makers of Cesarine
CTB/1
Daphne Guinness
in Britain
A STATELY HOME
ON SHOW, BUT
NOT HIS GRACE
THE PUBLIC are requested to leave
bags, suitcases, sacks, sticks, shopping-
baskets, boxes, etc., at the entrance
of the 11th Duke of Devonshire’s
Derbyshire home, Chatsworth House,
because, frankly, despite hush-hush
security arrangements, which include
the willingness of the general public
to sneak on their fellow men, there
have already been three attempts to
remove some of His Grace’s objets
d’art. Today, however, umbrellas are
allowed because it is bucketing down,
and after a 100 yd. sprint up the drive,
past an apologetically smiling sculp-
tured naked lady on the left,
everyone stands in the entrance hall
shaking coats and plastic pixie hats
all over the Duke’s ceremonial chairs
and saying, My God/Mon Dieu/Mein
Gott, and, in twice as many British
dialects, the weather is terrible. They’ve
paid five shillings to see the stately
house, exhibition, and gardens, they
damn’d well hope they’re able to.
Down in the village of Edensor, in
what was once the stables and is now
the tea-rooms, Mrs. Sayner is busy
serving home-cooked English-style food:
that is, tinned Heinz soup and hygienic-
ally wrapped Kraft cheese, and saying,
It’s cook’s day off today, it’ll have
to be salad and the trifle’s all finished.
God knows what they’ll do for tea.
Then, meanwhile, there’s the “Horse and
Hound” to 'read. Rudgeway Tiny Tim,
an extravagant mover with perfect
manners, is for sale, 400gns. And
Toffee Toes, with kind temperament
and sound nature, llOOgns. The tea-
room has gifts for sale. Including
pottery with Tower of London views,
waste-paper bins, silk-covered Kleenex
boxes, handy fuse-mending kits, and
prominently to the right of a notice,
“We have reluctantly found it necessary
to keep the toilets locked, will patrons
please ask for key at post office
counter,” is another notice saying “An-
tiques for sale.” They are out of stock
at this moment. It’s all right, says the
blond youth blushing to his roots, yer
don’t need a key terday. Neither do
yer need one up at t’house, where His
Grace’s lavatories have come in for a
good deal of favorable publicity lately.
The Automobile Association have
awarded him full marks for his well-
appointed loos in the magazine
“Drive.” “We are no fools,” says a
Chatsworth spokesman, “we know
what people like,” which is: ceiling
flush, high pedestal, built into black-
and-white stone floor, and thin crinkly
paper.
Twenty retainers of advanced age are
posted at strategic points around Chats-
worth House to answer questions and
also to keep the flow going. The
trouble is they will get stuck on the
west sub-corridor and stairs, they’ve got
a mental blockage about moving fast.
“. . . Do hurry up, this is worse than
a football match,” shouts a retainer,
“these people are waiting to come up
to see the lovely staterooms, and
when they finally get there admire the
violin on the door. Ho yes, when they’re
there they’ll say that man downstairs is
fibbing, but he’s not, it is a violin
painted on the door, Ha, you’re all
moving now . . . thank you so much,
thank you very much . . .”
Actually, the first staggering objet
d’art, which is given pride of place in
His Grace’s entrance hall, is a 3001 b.
iced cake model of Chatsworth, baked
by Eunice Bingley in the Co-op
Society ovens at Saddleworth for the
Saddleworth Festival of Arts opened
by the Duke himself last year. It took
Eunice’s friend, Stanley Krai, 240
hours to ice it, and someone says he
“moost ’ave been ready for a pint after
that.” And then everyone shuffles on
with their 3s. 6d. guide-books in one
hand and/or macs, umbrellas, children,
lovers on the other.
Up the north sub-corridor, through
the painted hall, by goom, Elsie, can
yer see yerself cooming down those
stairs in a ballgown past a easeful of
gifts to the present Duke, including two
lovely pictures of the Prime Minister of
Nigeria and the President of India,
smiling from silver frames, and a funny
tool from British Oxygen, and an
invitation to visit Topeka and Kansas.
Into the chapel corridor containing,
among other things, a huge stone foot
bought by the 6th Duke in a mad
moment thinking it an antique relic.
It is a fake, says the guide-book, pro-
duced to deceive the tourist with a taste
for antiquities. Well, it looks like gout
to one tourist today.
Into the oak room, and if that’s not
vinyl tiling Elsie’ll eat her pixie hat, on
through the chapel where the 6th
Duke’s many feminine friends
embroidered the chairs, up those west
stairs into the sketch galleries, and here
is the present Duke posed for posterity
in red cravat, pink sweater, and blue
jacket, and a few feet away his Duchess
painted by Annigoni and covered, for
safety’s sake, in glass.
For three hours the public wanders,
children cry, swing on ropes, finger the
Duke’s 17,500 books, pull his flock wall-
paper, Elsie’s glad she doesn’t do the
housework around here. “Do they,” she
asks at the dining-room, “do they eat
in here?” A coffee table’d do her with
a thick steak on.
Into the sculpture gallery with
Napoleon’s mater smiling flatly and on
to the orangery for souvenirs: Chats-
worth bon-bons, 2s. 6d. a box; Chats-
worth mugs, 30 shillings each; Chats-
worth cards, 6d. and 9d. Don’t look
now, says a retainer, or I’ll get the
sack, but over there is the present
Duchess of Devonshire. In the flesh.
The Duke is not available for interview.
He never, says his secretary, mixes his
publics with his privates.


r?D
0
0
Canada
m
«•
o
u
. .-4*
* 4, ■ 2
+2
call-a-number’ rate)
new ‘call-a-number’ service saves you 25%
Ask the operator to connect you to a number, not a person to
save 25% on your 3-minute call to Canada or mainland U.S.A.
The rate per additional minute for 'Person to person' calls is
also down from $3.60 to $2.70 on weekdays and from
$2.70 to $2.03 on Sundays.
new Sunday rates It'S cheaper to call Canada and U.S.A. on
Sundays (that is, any time between midnight, Saturday and
midnight, Sunday). The cheapest way of all is to take the double
cost-saving advantage of 'Call-a-number' and 'Sunday Con-
cession'. Take a look at these rates ...
New rates for telephone calls from
anywhere in Australia to anywhere
in mainland U.S.A. or Canada
FIRST
THREE
EACH
ADDITIONAL
MONDAY TO SATURDAY MINUTES MINUTE
Person to person . . . .$lO.BO $2.70
Call-a-number 8.10 2.70
SUNDAY CONCESSION
Person to person . ... 8.10 2.03
Call-a-number . . 609 2.03
gCOMj^
&
t
speeds your words across the world
dial 016 for anywhere in the world
(If you are outside the metropolitan
Telephone Directory area, refer to your directory
for the International Trunks number).
THE OVERSEAS TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)
F 5678


THAT'S NOT WHAT THEY DO OVERSEAS
Comment by ‘Observer’
ON THE face of it “overseas” seems
a sensible kind of way for an island
people to refer to all those other people
in the world who live somewhere else,
but for Australians it has developed
enervating cultural connotations. For
this reason it seems a good idea that
The Bulletin has now renamed its
“Overseas” section “International.”
As well as that toplessness of Aus-
tralian life, in which we lose our heads
to the United Kingdom or to the United
States, or half a head to each, some
Australians have developed an ultimate
sense of unimportance in which Aus-
tralia is the province of All Overseas.
It becomes the country without quali-
ties, the least of them all, the world’s
one non-nation.
I am not referring here to the effects
that come from belonging to the group
of English-speaking nations, or from not
being a super power or a major world
power, or from being one of the most
foreign-owned industrial nations and
one of the technologically least innovat-
ing. What I have in mind is the kind
of attitude that lumps the rest of the
world together as if it had become one
nation called “Overseas” and then picks
the eyes out of it, so that, whatever it
is you mention, someone else’s eyes are
always shining brighter than Australia’s.
They write better Overseas. I mean,
just look at Homer pr Dostoevsky or
Dante. They paint better Overseas.
Where’s our Rembrandt? They com-
pose music better Overseas. Australia
hasn’t produced a Beethoven, has it?
They cook food better Overseas—just
look at the French, the Italian, and
the Chinese cuisines, for a start. Over-
seas, they’re more liberal than we are:
the Americans don’t ban Books like we
do. They can make batik better Over-
seas than we do. They perform kabuki
plays better Overseas than we do. They
design better mosques Overseas. Look
at Tokyo and London and New York—-
those are real cities, not like Melbourne.
Bangkok people are more friendly than
Sydney people; Nigerians have a better
sense of rhythm than Queenslanders;
the saunas are better in Helsinki than
they are in Adelaide.
Each of these individual statements
is true. But where is the nation that
can produce Homer, Dostoevsky, Dante,
Rembrandt, and Beethoven; that can
cook as well as the French, the Italians,
and the Chinese; that is best not only at
being liberal in book-banning but also
in making batik, playing kabuki, and
designing mosques; that has three cities
the size of Tokyo, London, and New
York; and that is as friendly as the
Thais while being as rhythmic as the
Nigerians and as good at sauna baths as
the Finns?
It is not self-complacency to suggest
that Australia should not try to match
the highest performance of every other
country. No country could stand up
to that kind of test. But something
approaching this kind of self-laceration
makes up a significant Australian mental
disorder. If one wants to compare
Australia with some other country it is
possible to do so, but it is an impossible
test to expect Australia to match the
highest performance in their own fields
of all the other countries. It is not the
boastful windbag who is now the Ugly
Australian, but those who are addicted
to a pleasurable inferiority.
One of the most significant symptoms
of our provincialism is that we don’t
know how to estimate ourselves. In the
earlier period of provincialism (which
we usually describe as the period of
Australian nationalism) we could at
least boast about ourselves as being
better than the Poms, as, in some ways,
we were. But the kind of educated
quasi-cosmopolitan approach that then
took over has two dangers. One is that,
culturally, it is very largely parochial
rather than cosmopolitan (because it is
London-centred); the other is that if we
do have some things at which we are
better than most it is difficult for us to
praise ourselves for these characteristics
if our main reference countries do not
possess them, since we are in the habit
of judging the worth of things by the
value given to them Overseas.
Thus, while we once boasted of our
egalitarian manners, we are now not
game to do so. Because we are better
at egalitarianism than most countries, it
seems a fault rather than a virtue. We
cannot any longer even praise ourselves
for being the best woolgrowers in the
world. No country Overseas is as good
at growing wool as we are, therefore
growing wool doesn’t matter. At the
same time we praise ourselves exces-
sively because we happen to have found
some minerals in our backyard—
because mining minerals is something
they’re good at Overseas.
There is probably no true cosmopoli-
tanism. We are all the creatures of
our nationality. Except for mathematics,
cosmopolitanism has no language. But
in those inadequate attempts at cosmo-
politanism that are the best humanity
can, for the moment, contrive it is not
a sign of internationalism to see the
world beyond one’s own country as
ideal. The opposite may be the case.
The beginning of cosmopolitanism (as
of human brotherhood) may lie in a
sense of shared inadequacy. Ideally,
Australians should become more cosmo-
politan in this sense—that they see
themselves as part of the world, and
patchy like the rest of the world. They
should see themselves, as it were, as part
of “Overseas.” At the same time they
should not be ashamed to have some
sense of self-definition. It is doubtful
whether, without self-definition, the
human species, whether individually or
collectively, can release its creative
forces, or even survive.
IN DEFENCE OF "PROFITEERING"
Comment by Peter Samuel
IF THIS had been written during the
petrol famine I would probably have
suffered abusive telephone calls and
worse. But looking back, the most
interesting aspect of the affair was that
public indignation was directed not
against the principal actors, the strik-
ing tanker-drivers or their employers.
It was focused on people who sold
petrol at a higher than normal price.
Words like blackmarketeer, sharp
operator, and profiteer were thrown
around with abandon. Even N.S.W.
Premier Askin, supposedly belonging to
a Party dedicated to free enterprise,
joined in the denunciations. My fellow
journalists played a full part, too, using
the same emotive language and harass-
ing the high-price petrol sellers with a
proud and self-righteous venom.
The reaction was perhaps understand-
able. There we, the masses, were all
suffering the nuisance of a dry-up of
petrol supplies and in this situation
some people were reaping handsome
profits. Why, it was indignantly de-
manded, should some make a profit out
of the deprivation of others?
This popular view displays a remark-
able absence of understanding of the
way an economy works, and of the
socially useful role of profit. The high-
price petrol sellers were serving a valu-
able social function, and they made a
major contribution to alleviating the
disruptive effects of the shortage.
This is not a comment on their
motives. I am sure that like most
people in business, they were in it for
the buck. But that is not the issue.
Self-interest for the operators happened
to produce a socially useful result. They
provided a valuable marketing service,
searching out supplies of scarce petrol,
devising improvised means of delivering
it from country areas, and interstate, to
petrol-famished Sydney. In many cases
they needed the higher price to compen-
sate them for their costs of transport
and their costs in buying and filling
into drums. They also had to cover
the risks of being landed with a high-
cost fuel on a market restored to normal


by a quick resumption of regular trans-
port. If they made large profits, it was
mainly through doing quick business
with a rapid turnover. This was cer-
tainly the case with people selling petrol
at 60 or 70 cents.
There were some sales at prices as
high as $1.50 and $2.00. Now these
sellers undoubtedly were making huge
unit profits, but even this is not sensibly
condemned out of hand either.
The mere fact that they were able to
find buyers at this sort of price indicates
that there were people who needed
petrol pretty desperately and found it
worth while to pay. Truckers, taxi-men,
and delivery-van drivers found it paid
them to buy petrol at these sort of
inflated prices so they could carry on
their businesses and continue to provide
their transportation services.
The high prices were useful in a
number of ways. First they tended to
ration scarce supplies of petrol to people
who really needed them. Ordinary
motorists who use their cars for rela-
tively inessential commuting, visiting,
and shopping trips were forced to use
public transport.
Fuel was therefore conserved for the
transport of goods and materials for
which there is no alternative to the
motor-vehicle. At the cost of some in-
convenience to travellers, people were
kept in work, and shops in supplies.
Second, the higher prices deterred
hoarding, and any aggravation of the
petrol shortage. To the extent that the
high-price sellers did still sell petrol to
hoarders, they were setting their prices
below a socially useful level. They
should have been encouraged to charge
more.
This sort of “profiteering” is not to
be deplored but accepted as a sensible
temporary expedient, an inescapable by-
product of a shortage of a key com-
modity.
The charge that there was some sort
of “blackmarket” in petrol was quite
ridiculous.
Petrol has not, since 1949, been sub-
jected to public price controls and so
there is no such thing as an official
price. There is no Governmentally regu-
lated market, from which any “black-
market” can diverge. Certainly the oil
companies in normal times attempt to
maintain a uniform price by private
collusion. But it is quite grotesque to
describe a divergence from this private
arrangement as a blackmarket practice.
It is competition.
There is a paradox in the fact that
people like us in Australia, who live
with the profit motive and competition
in most areas of our economy, fail to
understand it, while at the very same
time the more broadminded Communist
countries like Yugoslavia and Czecho-
slovakia are rejoicing in the return of
free markets and competition after
decades of stifling controls and restraints
on free markets. If Mr. Askin had
denounced blackmarketeers and profi-
teers in Prague last week, he would have
been roundly denounced as a stuck-in-
the-mud bureaucrat and even a reac-
tionary Stalinist.
WILL THE TAIL LOSE THE DOG
Comment by Alan Reid
FOR MORE THAN 30 of the past
45 years, the Australian Country
Party has been “the tail of the dog
that wagged non-Labor Governments.”
But last week’s redistribution proposals,
coupled with Labor’s plans, may sep-
arate the tail from the dog.
Country Party Leader John Mc-
Ewen has long appreciated that the
Country Party has been gradually
chopped back in electoral size. It was
for this reason that he has been trying
to build a bridge between the seeming
incompatibles of country supporters,
who, particularly if they produce for
export, need the protection of low
costs, and manufacturers who want the
protection of high tariffs. McEwen
undoubtedly built this bridge through
his control of the Trade Department,
but the bridge is through McEwen and
McEwen alone at this stage. McEwen
has not as yet been able to establish
a bridge at the electoral level.
To get a breathing space in which
the primary producer-manufacturer
bridge could be established at the
electoral level, McEwen led the Country
Party attack on the 1962 redistribution
proposals which were supported by the
Liberals, the senior partners in the
Liberal-CP Coalition Government.
McEwen’s gripe then was that the
proposals provided for the wiping out of
the Country Party seat of Gwydir
held by lan Allan and that the
Electoral Commissioners in deciding
their recommendations had not
weighted electorate members in favor
of country seats.
McEwen has obtained relatively little
from this rejection except time, and
even time has turned out to have little
value from the CP’s long-term view-
point.
Under the new proposals, McEwen
has certainly preserved Gwydir, but
Lawson, a N.S.W. Country Party seat
held since 1949 by Laurie Failes, has
been wiped out, and the Commission-
ers have been conservative in using the
discretion to weigh electorates by 20
percent in favor of the Country.
McEwen has not done badly in
N.S.W. where the CP now holds nine
seats (including Lawson). The new
loadings recommended are Calare 11.59
percent, Cowper 12.58 percent, Gwydir
10.35 percent, Lyne 13.36 percent, and
Riverina 14.08 percent.
But in Victoria, only Mallee, at 12.5
percent, exceeds 10 percent. Two—
Indi and Wimmera—are 9.67 percent
and 9.88 percent respectively. The
other two Victorian CP seats —Murray
and Gippsland—are at the seven-point-
odd percent that McEwen complained
in 1962 was insufficient to maintain
Country Party strength.
All in all the redistribution does not
seem sufficiently weighted in favor of
the Country Party to ensure its con-
tinuance as a major political party,
particularly in the light of an attitude
that is emerging in the Labor Party.
The Victorian ALP has already de-
cided that it will no longer throw its
second preferences to the Country
Party. In normal times this is suffi-
cient to keep two Country Party mem-
bers, King in Wimmera and Holten
in Indi, in their seats. If the CP
candidates run first without getting
an absolute vote, the Liberals second,
the ALP third, the ALP preferences
put in the CP men. The CP candidates
now have to hope that if they them-
selves do not get an absolute majority
Labor does better than the Liberals,
so that they will go in on Liberal
instead of Labor preferences. But now
if the Liberals run second, Labor’s
preferences will put them in. The
knowledge that they are to get Labor
preferences in the future will un-
doubtedly stimulate the Liberals in both
electorates, which, in its turn will result
in a heavier strain being placed on
Liberal-Country Party relationships in
the Coalition Government in Canberra.
There are indications that both
Western Australian and Queensland
ALP branches will decide to follow the
Victorian example.
If Labor decides to follow the same
policy of permanently throwing its
preferences to the Liberals in Queens-
land three-cornered contests, the long-
term effect must be to weaken the
Country Party’s strength in that State
also.
The very real danger to the Country
Party is that the Liberals could achieve
a House of Representatives majority in
their own right. As things stand, the
Liberals have 60 members in a House
numbering 124 (to be 125 after the
present redistribution proposals go
through). They only need 64 to be able
to provide a Speaker and have a
majority in their own right.
On a vote which represents less than
ten percent of the total Australian
vote (the DLP, which has no House
of Representatives Members, get be-
tween seven percent and eight percent
of the total vote) the CP has been able
to achieve miracles. It has three Mini-
sters in a Cabinet of 12 McEwen
(Trade), Anthony (Primary Industry),
and Sinclair (Transport), it has another
three Ministers, Barnes (External Ter-
ritories), McKellar (Repatriation), and
Nixon (Interior) to bring its total
to six in a Ministry of 26.
Much of this goes if the Liberals
achieve a majority in their own right.
All of it goes if the Liberals achieve a
majority in their own right and behave
as toughly as the CP has behaved while
it has been the balance of power.


Everyone's up in armchairs...
And party-spirited!
You know how it is. Somebody finds a new freedom.
Next thing the whole world wants it.
A few people discovered the freedom of the BOAC
Armchair . . . the stretch-right-out legroom, the
roomy sink-in upholstery. Sure enough, everyone
started voting the BOAC ticket.
Politicians, pastrycooks, bright young men, bubble
dancers . . . Oh, you should be up in the Armchairs
now!
So why aren’t you?
BO AC have 10 flights a week out of Australia to
London and Europe. Seven a week West via India.
Threfc a week East via the U.S.A. All with the most
comfortable economy class seat in the world on board.
Now is the time for all good men to see a travel
agent, BOAC, or Qantas, General Sales Agents for
BOAC.
And come to the party.
mmr%*
z - -
■ ; ■■ •:
♦
BOAC:P4B3A
§1
fill
I '
ALL OVER THE WORLD
TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU.
BO AC with Air India, Air New Zealand and Qantas.


AUSTRALIA
Out of the non-gerrymander, an election?
“It appears that with voters generally he is
still popular”
THE ELECTORAL redistribution pro-
posals tabled last week are a classic
example of the self-denying prophecy.
In 1965 when the new electoral law
was introduced almost everyone thought
that it opened the way for a gerry-
mander of electorates to favor the Gov-
ernment and particularly the Coun-
try Party at the expense of the
Labor Party. ALP leaders bemoaned
the imminent demise of democracy,
with South Australia style boundary-
rigging about to spread to the National
Parliament. Academics and newspaper
columnists and editorialists took up the
theme. And the Government made no
real reply. It couldn’t. Its Country
Party Members were indeed hoping for
such a gerrymander (though they
would use a nicer word) and the Liber-
als couldn’t come out and say publicly
that they wouldn’t get it, for fear of
adding new strains to the already un-
easy coalition.
In fact, of course, the Electoral Com-
missioners who draw the electoral maps
are drearily upright public servants,
mostly very keen to avoid accusations
of bias. And during this redistribution
th*ey were given a special incentive to
be fair. For the first time they were
required to publish all submissions and
appeals made to them, so that it would
be relatively easy to see if they had
pandered to partisan desires.
And, a gerrymander having been so
widely and vociferously prophesied, the
Commissioners were particularly keen
to produce nothing of the sort. Last
week people of all political persuasions
who took the trouble to pore over the
150 maps and electoral returns which
spelled out the changes agreed that on
balance the proposals were very fair.
The Country Party simply had to
lose by any redistribution, as a reflec-
tion of the continuing drift of voters to
the big cities. Even so its losses were
minimised by giving an increased
weight to the country vote (which is
now worth about 9 percent more than
a city vote).
In South Australia, the new bound-
aries did look to be twisted strongly—
but in the Labor Party’s favor. “An
outrageous gerrymander,” declared one
Liberal supporter in Canberra. To
which a Labor man replied: “That’s
just the dispensation of natural justice
for those State electorates of yours.”
And the Labor people could also cite
Queensland as evidence of boundary
drawing which seemed to help several
Country Party members of the Govern-
ment.
In Victoria, the proposals are very
much kinder to the Labor Party than
anyone expected, and Victoria’s Dr. Jim
Cairns declared himself delighted with
the result. In Tasmania, too, the ALP
seemed to have done well, with the
result that a tiny swing of votes could
eliminate all Government representa-
tives from the island State. N.S.W. and
W.A. were sharpened up with more
seats made “swingers,” but with neither
Party seeming to get favored treat-
ment.
One prediction seems soundly based:
that there will be some appeals and
some protests and then minor amend-
ments to the proposals, but that the
new electoral maps will become law
later this year.
This means that the next elections
will be held on boundaries which
accord much more with demographic
realities than any since 1954. They
are as imperfect as any electoral system
is the greatest imperfection is un-
doubtedly the complete non-representa-
tion of the 500,000 DLP voters but
the proposals will be accepted by most
Australians as an improvement. It
would be a real surprise if the poli-
ticians were to block them in Parlia-
ment. The Country Party will probably
grumble, but Mr. McEwen might
realise he has done as well as he could
reasonably expect. So, barring a real
outburst of unreasonableness from that
quarter, the Government should be able
to hold together.
That’s more than Labor Party people
can confidently predict. “The redistri-
bution is the very least of our worries
at the moment,” said one Party official
in Canberra after glancing at the maps.
It reduces Party Leader Whitlam’s sup-
port in the Parliamentary Party since
it will disenfranchise a handful of his
supporters unless they can find other
seats for themselves. The other worries
of the Labor Party are, of course,
related to its long-standing internal
division between Left and Right.
August 5 is the date for the next con-
frontation, when the Federal Executive
meets in Canberra. The credentials of
one of Tasmania’s delegates, Mr. Har-
radine, are still in dispute, and the out-
come will play an important part in
Prime Minister Gorton’s decision about
whether to call an election this year.
Most observers think that Mr. Whit-
lam is going to back down once again
and allow the Left-dominated Execu-
tive to exclude Mr. Harradine (accused
of DLP sympathy) without fuss. But
people close to the Labor Party Leader
say the position is unchanged, and sug-
gest he will fight on even if this risks
a split in the Party.
It is said by some that he and his
followers are very heartened by a pub-
lic opinion poll which shows the poten-
tial support he could muster in the
event of a split. A Whitlam Labor
Party supported by the DLP would,
according to this survey, romp home
in an election. It would get 44 percent
of primary votes to 32 percent of the
Liberal and Country Parties’ combined,
and 16 percent for a Left-wing splinter
Labor Party. The same election would
give an unsplit ALP no chance what-
ever the L-CP would get 50 per-


cent and the DLP at least 7 percent.
Which suggests that Mr. Gorton is in
no trouble as long as he keeps the sup-
port of the DLP and is able to con-
tinue to be opposed by a Labor Parry
which contains a Left-wing faction.
The fact of continuing Labor Party
turmoil is of course only one factor
tending to encourage Mr. Gorton to
call an early election. Another is the
prospect of several of his senior Minis-
ters retiring. Mr. Hasluck, Mr. Mc-
Mahon, Mr. Fairhall, and Mr. McEwen
could all leave Parliament soon.
This has been reported in some places
as a simple expression of dissatisfaction
with the leadership of Mr. Gorton. Al-
though there is an amount of this, it
isn’t the main factor. Mr. Hasluck was
plain disappointed that his Party did
not choose him as successor to the late
Mr. Holt and feels disillusioned with
his political colleagues generally. He
intensely dislikes the manoeuvring and
dealing involved in politics, feels he has
no chance of further advancement, and
looks forward to being able to devote
himself to writing. Many people in
Canberra say he decided on retirement
from politics as early as February this
year, but did not want to express his
sour grapes by making it immediate.
They think he’ll go early next year.
Mr. Fairhall has been tossing up
whether to throw politics in for a con-
siderable time now. Mr. Gorton’s hand-
ling of the defence review will prob-
ably determine whether he stays or
goes. ■ !
Mr. McMahon also has lost a lot of
his driving ambition since Mr. Mc-
Ewen’s fierce attacks on him during
the contest for succession early this
year. People in the Treasury report that
Mr. Gorton absolutely dominates fin-
ancial policy these days, and that there
is little left for Mr. McMahon to do.
Mr. Gorton would obviously rather
have an election before any of these
senior men retired than allow the Labor
Party to be able to say that the Gov-
ernment is falling to pieces.
He would also like a mandate of his
own. His prestige with his political
supporters, public servants, and opinion
leaders in the community has been
steadily deteriorating, though it appears
that with voters generally he is still
popular. The fear among Liberals is
that by the next year the general elec-
torate will have picked up the opinion
leaders’ criticisms of him. Another
reason for getting in early.
FOREIGN POLICY
DOUBLY DIVIDED
SINCE PRIME MINISTER Gorton
threw Australian foreign policy into
the melting pot by making a series of
self-contradictory statements about it,
entirely new lines of division have
emerged in Canberra’s ideological spec-
trum. It used to be a clear-cut Left-
Right affair. “Forward defence” and
regionalism were settled Government
policy. The DLP on one side wanted
more of it. The Labor Party on the
other wanted less of it.
But now there is emerging a
phenomenon new to Australia (though
familiar to America). Both major
Parties are split down the middle on
foreign policy, and a new classification
is needed to replace the old Left-
Right division. Perhaps the most
appropriate new labels for the two
camps which cross Party lines are
regionalist and retractionist. (Isolation-
ist is usually too harsh a word.)
This division was vividly demonstra-
ted recently at a conference of the
Institute of International Affairs, when
there was more disagreement on the
future of Australian foreign policy be-
tween supporters of each Party than
there was between them.
Last week there were comments in
the Parties that, based on the general
propositions in a speech he made over
the weekend, Labor leader Whitlam
now has more in common with Mr.
Hasluck than he does with Mr. Gorton.
On the other side, it is pointed out
that Dr. Cairns and Mr. Wentworth
appear to support rather similar
policies of retraction in foreign policy,
even if their reasons for supporting them
are quite radically different.
Mr. Whitlam attacked those in his
own Party who say that Vietnam does
not matter: “There is a superficial
plausibility about the notion that Aus-
tralia can best serve the interests of
the Vietnamese people by washing its
hands of their problems. This is as
cruel and thoughtless as the opposing
view . . . that it is bad luck for the
people of Vietnam that the battle for
freedom is being waged in their back-
yard.”
He went on: “Australians can neither
trade nor travel unless there is orderly
progress in the archipelagos to their
north and in the adjacent periphery of
Asia. Australians have yet to learn to
think regionally. Throughout the period
in which Australia’s consciousness of
the nations around us and of their prob-
lems should have been expanding, we
have been governed by parties which
choose to look outside the region for
friends and allies.
“Foreign policy is concerned not
merely with the security and survival
of the nation. It must be concerned
with the quality of the nation we wish
to build. An isolationist society is
essentially a conservative society. An
isolationist Australia would be rich,
selfish, greedy, racialist, and re-
actionary.
“While the U.S. may be one of
the most violent communities of the
world, it still remains the most gen-
erous and idealistic nation in the world.
Our proper role is not to shut our-
selves off from American influence, but
to use and expand our own influence
with America to assist her in playing
a fruitful, meaningful, and peaceful
role in our region.
“At the same time, we must strive
constantly to devise new ways of in-
tegrating this country with its Asian
neighbors. We must strive to promote
among those neighbors policies based
Regionalists? -Whitlam and Has-
luck
on regional consciousness and inter-
dependent initiatives. In the last
analysis, the penalty which any other
European nation may be required to
pay for failure to comprehend South-
East Asia cannot exceed an enforced
withdrawal from the region. For us,
however, there can be no withdrawal.
Our destiny is inextricably entwined
with the destinies of the nations and the
peoples around us. We are Asians by
an irrevocable act of geography.”
He urged the stepping-up of “Aus-
tralia’s efforts to build the defences,
societies, and economies of the nations
in our region,” and emphasised par-
ticularly the need for co-operation with
Japan.
At the same conference a prominent
Liberal, Mr. Kevin Cairns, though tak-
ing a different attitude to China, pre-
sented a theme which coincided at
many important points with Mr. Whit-
lam’s address. He implicitly agreed
with the Labor Party leader’s claim
that American military might was no
longer sufficient to guarantee the future
of the region and the defence of Aus-
tralia. “Such a balance of power must
be developed in Asia as makes the
United States an addition not a
principal agent in herself.” He pre-
sented tables showing the defence
potential of the region. Taiwan, the
Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Thai-
land, and Korea could, between them,
mobilise 1,380,000 soldiers. Australian
policy should be to help develop these
Retractionists? -Cairns and Went-
worth


countries and encourage links between
them. “One immediate principal task
of Australian defence and foreign policy
is the organisation of economic and
political co-operation so that Japan
plays a role in Asia commensurate with
her economic strength.”
The regionalists include Mr. Has-
luck and Mr. Fairhall, the younger
Liberal backbenchers, and the DLP.
The retractionists are a mixed
bunch. They range in motivation from
traditional Labor Party Left-wingers
who dislike the non-Communist nations
to our north and want to have nothing
to do with them for these ideological
reasons, through to conservatives who,
taking the domino theory quite
literally, think that Asia is finished be-
cause Vietnam is in doubt. Their
motives are as different as chalk from
cheese, but the policies they advocate
amount to much the same thing.
It is clear that the leaders of both
major Parties will, in future, have as
much trouble developing a Party con-
sensus as each will have in discrediting
the other.
MONASH
ATHENS IN MELBOURNE
MONASH UNIVERSITY would not
have a “bat’s chance in hell” of getting
more money, quipped its frazzled Vice-
Chancellor at the end of an address
to research students last week. Dr.
Matheson had no intention of being
taken seriously, but the phrase does
reveal the anxiety which he, the Uni-
versity Council, his staff, and many re-
search students feel after the Monash
mini-revolution of the past six months.
The point is not so much that
Monash could be deliberately penalised,
but that in the scramble for funds for
costly tertiary education Monash, and
particularly its demands for allocations
for major research projects, may not
be given the same patient hearing.
Private benefactors, too, may relegate
Monash to the second rank of worthy
causes.
While the Monash majority cry “a
few spoiling things for the many,” the
small minority retort that they are
pumping life into a university which
is like the others, a mere workshop and
ideological fountain-head of the
capitalist system.
The group of roughly 300 Labor
Club members, who in varying degrees
of intensity believe that the Australian
system has within it the seeds of its own
destruction, are in the middle of a
wider group of radical dissenters who
regard the Labor Club as either a
nuisance, fraternal but misguided, or
comically absurd. The wider group and
the extreme Left are vaguely united,
however, in their opposition to the
Vietnam War and conscription. They
also find consensus on the great issue
of the moment, “participatory democ-
racy,” which encompasses the reform
of student government and a general
desire to have a much greater say in
the structuring of courses, particularly
the Humanities courses, and in the run-
ning of the University.
The notion of reform of the' Students’
Representative Council has floated
around Monash for some years, but it
was only in late June that a modi-
fied system of “direct democracy” was
agreed upon by a mass meeting. The
issue was precipitated by the election
of an SRC president who had a dis-
taste for cliquy student bureaucracy.
Those defeated on the vote to dis-
band the SRC claim that the new sys-
tem of three equal bodies who fre-
quently refer to mass meetings has in-
creased efficiency, not abolished it. The
reformers claim that at last power has
been taken out of the hands of the
few who mistakenly thought they em-
bodied the student will.
The unhappy losers in this affair be-
lieve that student participation is a
myth. Mass meetings are easily manipu-
lated by clever use of debating pro-
cedures, a partial chairman, and by the
Monash students...will the pressure of work drain interest away?
fact that the student munching his
sandwich has no real idea of the issue,
its background, and its place in the
full picture. They think the University
has been taken over by the self-
appointed voices of student conscience,
who deliberately or innocently ignore
the truth that the great majority of
students are satisfied with their courses,
their University, and their society.
Both sides agree that student partici-
pation has been greatly helped by the
spacious foyer outside the cafeteria.
Hundreds customarily eat their lunches
sitting on the carpet so they don’t have
to move and can continue dealing the
cards while the debate rages about
them. By this simple procedure an
audience of 2000 people is automati-
cally guaranteed.
Cynics like Alan Goodfellow, a past-
president of the SRC who opposes the
new student administration, gives it
until the third week in third term be-
fore it fizzles. “The pressure of work
will drain interest away,” he said.
“They seem to forget that a body can-
not be re-created each year there has
to be some continuity.”
Already the euphoria of the first full
campus sit-in has evaporated. For a
few hours Pericles’ Athens lived again
in an outer Melbourne suburb, but it
is hard to maintain elan. Recently a
mass meeting was adjourned for a
week, because of lack of immediate
interest. Monash’s chief anti-hero,
Albert Langer, a young articulate
mathematician, who holds classic
Socialist views, is heckled and jeered
by anti-reform elements every time he
rises to address a meeting.
Langer is something of a Monash
fixation. Graffiti about him appear on
toilet doors; signs on notice boards
offer him for sale. He probably has a
consistent ideological world view which
saves him the embarrassment of the
usual student confusion about aims and
methods. Apart from a few individuals,
theorising is not a Labor Club forte.
Michael Counihan, secretary of the
New Left group, is sceptical about the
Labor Club’s critique of society. “Too
often they adopt action for its own
sake. They spend so much time acting
they have no time to think.”
Although the reformers agree that
the standard has deteriorated at the past
few general meetings, they claim that
a liberation of spirit has occurred
through the influence of the reform
movement. Students who had never
spoken in public before or participated
in clubs or student administration have
adopted definite views even to the ex-
tent of calling their own general meet-
ings on particular issues.
The American Consulate incident has
been a dampening influence this month.
A quiet yet intensive debate has been
conducted among the radicals which
has reduced the pro-violence people to
perhaps half a dozen. It was difficult
to fit the incident into any rational
pattern of political protest.
The student gesture always seems to
dominate. One laconic Lefty has ex-
pressed his considered opinion of the
“Monash thing” by pasting a large
green-and-black “sold” sign across the
Monash University signpost near the
main entrance.


ARBITRATION
NATIONAL WAGE CASE
THE 1968 NATIONAL Wage Case,
due to begin in Melbourne on August 6,
differs in several ways from previous
ones. This year it will be timed to
coincide with the Federal Budget,
largely to give the Bench more up-to-
date economic statistics, instead of be-
ginning in February, with the decision
handed down at the beginning of the
financial year, in July. It may not be
heard predominantly in Melbourne, at
the Conciliation and Arbitration Com-
mission’s headquarters in Law Courts
Place, because new, additional premises
for the Commission were opened in
Sydney a few weeks ago, and parts of
the Case may be heard there.
But above all, it will be different in
the light of last year’s decision by the
Full Bench of the Commission to merge
the basic wage and margins into a
single, total wage. As the basic wage
was a matter which could be dealt with
only by judges, the application used to
go straight to the Commission’s presi-
dent, Sir Richard Kirby. This year, as
there is no longer a basic wage, the
unions’ application went to a Commis-
sioner for preliminary hearing. In these
proceedings, on July 15, Senior Com-
missioner J. E. Taylor formally referred
the application to the Full Bench.
This year the ACTU has lodged a
two-pronged application on behalf of
eight metal trades unions.
Firstly, it seeks a return to the basic
wage—automatic cost of living adjust-
ment concept, abolished in 1953. The
increase sought, $ll.lO, would take the
basic wage in Victoria, for instance, to
$43.80. As an alternative, the ACTU
seeks a flat increase of $7.30 to the total
wage, minimum wage, and female rates.
ACTU advocate Mr. R. J. Hawke
told Senior Commissioner Taylor that
the application, though seeking “no
differential” between male and female
rates, did not imply that a general
request for equal pay would be part of
the ACTU case this year.
The “no differential” was obviously
by-the-way, in case a separate applica-
tion for equal pay succeeded, mean-
while, in another court. Much more
to the point, in the ACTU’s view, would
be restoration of that 30 percent of
metal trades wage increases which the
Full Bench deferred “until August at
least” in its about turn decision last
February. This followed an award
decision in December, giving metal
tradesmen increases ranging from 10c
to $10.05 (with $7.40 for a majority)
and a subsequent widespread industrial
dispute, when employers wanted to
absorb the increase by reducing over-
award margins. The February decision
gave the tradesmen $5.20 immediately,
but deferred $2.20.
At the preliminary hearing,
Employers’ counsel, Mr. James Robin-
son, claimed that the unions had
“scraped the barrel” in seeking reasons
for further increases, indicating that the
1968 National Wage Case will be a par-
ticularly hard-fought affair. Its ingredi-
ents, besides the normal concerns of
wages and costs to both workers and
manufacturers, will include the Com-
monwealth’s concern for the economy,
and the States’ for their wages bills.
And critics of the Commission’s word-
ing of its December, 1967, decision will
be waiting for pronouncements flowing
from the 1968 case.
In Melbourne the case will be heard
in the main wall-panelled courtroom on
the ground floor of the Commission’s
headquarters. About 100 seats are
available for the public, and groups of
schoolchildren, on a roster system to
avoid overcrowding, usually sit in to
watch for an hour. A hard core of
Sir Richard
Kirby
R. J. Hawke
newspaper reporters and industrial
officers will be keeping an eye on
various aspects of the case; which, for
much of the time, will sound like a
large-scale economic forum, the talk
interspersed with legal jargon on what
the Commission, or the old Arbitration
Court, did before 1956.
However, it hasn’t the atmosphere of
a strict court of law—despite the pres-
ence of a Commonwealth policeman on
the door. No wigs and gowns are worn
by the judges or the barristers. But the
decision could not be weightier.
TEACHERS
NOT "MISCELLANEOUS"
A DISPUTE which began in N.S.W.
kindergartens last year has broadened
to involve all GPS and Catholic school-
teachers in N.S.W. and the N.S.W.
Treasury. It hinges around an appli-
cation by a formerly little-known union,
the Assistant Masters and Mistresses’
Association of New South Wales, for
a Conciliation Committee to have juris-
diction over all teachers in New South
Wales private schools. These will in-
clude Catholic schools, all GPS and
Association schools, and the pre-schools
operated by the Kindergarten Union,
the Sydney Day Nursery School Associ-
ation, and a variety of schools for the
mentally handicapped.
This resurgence of unionism in the
whole private sector of New South
Wales education began in the middle of
last year when, of all the unlikely
organisations, the Miscellaneous Work-
ers’ Union attempted to move into the
education field of New South Wales.
This Union (which almost equals the
Australian , Workers’ Union in the
variety of trades and unskilled occupa-
tions it covers) applied to the State
Industrial Commission for a Concili-
ation Committee to have jurisdiction
over all employees of kindergarten and
nursery schools in New'South Wales.
The teachers were reluctant to become
part of the Miscellaneous Workers’
Union. For one thing, it is politically
Left Wing, and for another, the
teachers, all of whom have three years’
training, did not want to be regarded
as “miscellaneous.” However, as there
was no Conciliation Committee for
them, there was, at first, a distinct pos-
sibility that the Industrial Commission
would grant the Miscellaneous Workers’
Union’s application.
At the eleventh hour, however, a for-
merly moribund but now revived
teachers’ union entered the scene the
Assistant Masters and Mistresses’ As-
sociation. This Association hastily
briefed counsel, objected to the Miscel-
laneous Workers’ Union’s move, and
made its own application for a Con-
ciliation Committee with jurisdiction
over teachers. As a result, the Industrial
Commission agreed to recommend a
Conciliation Committee composed
partly of Miscellaneous Workers’ Union
representatives, with jurisdiction only
over cooks and their assistants. The
fate of the teachers was left to the new
application by the Assistant Masters and
Mistresses’ Association (AMMA) which
is still pending.
The point about this application by
the AMMA is that it goes far beyond
kindergarten teachers. If accepted, it
will lead to a Conciliation Committee
with jurisdiction over teachers in all
private schools from kindergartens to
GPS schools, and including Catholic
schools. In the Law Term beginning
next month, a decision will have to be
made. It is now probable that after
several weeks of anxious discussion none
of the private schools employers will
oppose the application.
If this is so, then as sure as night
follows day an award will be estab-
lished governing the salaries and work-
ing conditions of all private school-
teachers an award which is almost
certain to involve higher salaries and
better conditions for most of them. This
will obviously cost all private schools
money, but most particularly Catholic
schools. In the case of kindergartens,
both the New South Wales Education
and Child Welfare Departments will
be expected to meet new costs.
The GPS schools will not be so severely
affected. But the Catholic schools will
face a tremendous salary crisis. This
will increase the pressure for greatly
extended State aid from the New South
Wales Treasury and this will inevitably
be followed by similar demands in every
other State.


What's so special about
Canadian Pacific flights
to the U.S.A. and Europe?
Canada.
i
I iH
0
JQ
Canada is the added bonus you enjoy when
you jet with Canadian Pacific Airlines. Of
course Canada isn't the only place CPA flies
to. It's just that they like to take people there
on their way to the U.S.A. and Europe. They
want them to discover its spontaneous
friendliness, to taste the flavour, the excite-
ment of its wonderful cities and well de-
veloped resorts . . . made even more enjoy-
able by CPA's unmatched travel facilities
throughout Canada. And CPA aren't only
experts at showing people around Canada.
Their international network covers 56,000
route miles and five continents. In addition
are their 'Jet Discovery' Tours with exciting
itineraries in the Pacific, Orient and South
America; their round-world economy fare
including Japan ($1197.00) and their special
excursion fare to Honolulu ($544.70).
ROME
MADRID
LISBON
ONG KONG
■V-TOKYO
\ EDMONTON SANTA
LG^r^W^NIPEGjr MONTREAL MARIA
VANCOUVER^* - V • "S!f4 TORONTO/HAMILTON
WINDSOR/DETROIT
SANFRANCISCO
MEXICO CITY
HAWAII
FIJI
/ •AUCKLAND
SYDNEY
LIMA
.SANTIAGO
BUENOS AIRES
Ask your travel agent
about CPA's 'Jet Discovery'
Tours to Canada, U.S.A.,
South America and
around the world.
General Sales Agents:
Ansett-A.N.A.
CPA&r
CANADIAN PACIFIC A/RUNES
CPA flies fastest to Canada from Australia across the Pacific via Fiji
and Honolulu. Stopovers en route at no extra air fare. Fly from Van-
couver to San Francisco or across Canada to Toronto and Montreal
ior frequent connections to all major U.S.A. cities, jet direct to Europe
from Vancouver via the shorter polar route or nonstop from Toronto
or Montreal. Regular services from Vancouver to the Orient and
South America. cpa 29/40


<
cc
3
-J
Truly ..
a great
Australian
‘dry red’
A most satisfying wine. Careful
blending of Cabernet Sauvignon
and Shiraz (Hermitage) varieties
to a traditional Yalumba blend
gives Galway Vintage a distinc-
tive character of its own.
Cabernet Sauvignon for full
bouquet and soft tannin; Shiraz
to impart a soft, round full
flavour. Culmination is a superb
‘dry red', achieved by ageing,
"chateau” style, in oak casks.
Our reward is the pleasure you
derive from serving this true-to-
type great Australian dry red
to your friends.
CHARACTERISTICS
OF THE CABERNET
SAUVIGNON GRAPE
Superb quality but low yield
of 5 to 1 ton to the acre. A
small round black grape with
light bloom, soft texture and
tough skin. Ripens early on a
loose but small, often
winged, conical shaped
bunch. The leaf is small to
medium, 5-lobed, with regular
teeth and its over-lapping
lobes give a characteristic
appearance of five holes
yalumba
GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
Enjoy also Australia’s premier-white
—Yalumba Carte d’Or Riesling
Vintaged by: S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD . ANGASTON. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 5353
SS028
THE PILL
BREEDING ILL WILL
Prams plentiful, babies fewer
INDUSTRY has voiced a complaint
about the widespread use of oral con-
traceptives. “Who,” cried a pram manu-
facturer, “is going to protect us from
The Pill?” His cry echoed in Canberra
when the Minister for Customs and
Excise, Senator Scott, was asked what
protection pram and nursery furniture
manufacturers could expect.
What indeed, when the birthrate has
risen only .13 percent on 1966’s low
19.27 percent thousand population?
This is in spite of the fact that the great
postwar baby boom has now reached
the marrying stage and with 50 percent
of the populatio! under 25 we should
be enjoying the sharpest rise in the
birthrate ever known in Australian his-
tory. Instead, though most maternity
hospitals report a very slight increase in
the product this year, the graphs are
static.
Things are static, too, in the sales
departments of nursery furniture manu-
facturers. Diversification is becoming
necessary in many of the old cosy-bye
factories. A spokesman from Manley
Ferrari Pty. Ltd., which produces Stork
prams, w'ould cheerfully have The Pill
banned. “Our figures have remained
the same there is just no increase in
production needed and this seems
absurd in a growing economy,” he said.
It was someone from Manley Ferrari
who approached the Customs Depart-
ment asking for protection when
Japanese prams were found selling for
a “ridiculous price.” As it turned out,
the Japanese prams had been brought
in with a fair tariff rate, but the
importer finally had to cut the price
right down in this somewhat barren
city of Sydney.
■ At Cyclops, where “the most com-
prehensive range in Australia” is
produced, pram sales are steadily drop-
ping and the company has just produced
an item called the Boulevarde which is
capable of -being used as a pram, a
stroller, bassinet, or a carrying cot.
Just released and with patent pending,
it carries the hopes of the Cyclops pram
department on its cushioned wheels.
The London Baby Carriages Pty.


Mining
Investors:
Send for
tins new
b00k...
$4.75
mail order only
Series 1
Mining
and die
THE
Moneymakers
FORTUNE
The only authoritative
Investment manual.
«|iri|« YATT * * which shares to buy • where
I IW • new discoveries will be • who
will make them • who owns valuable leases • which companies
make big profits
Clearly and concisely written by a panel of experts, "Mining and the
Money Makers" gives you 128 pages of inside information on mining.
Accurate, up-to-the-minute facts with photographs and detailed maps.
A complete background to steel, lead, zinc, copper, beach sands, gold,
nickel, coal, tin, iron ore and Australia's mineral wealth. Case-bound,
beautifully printed.
7 days money back
trial guarantee
Impact nows^sss
Sf TO: SEABORN PRINTING CO. PTY. LTD.,
29-35 Collins Street, Alexandria, N.S.W. 2015
I enclose cheque/postal order for $5 for one copy "The Fortune Down Under
Series 1: Mining and the Money Makers".
NAME:
ADDRESS:
Supplies limited due to U.K. Advance Orders. $4.75 plus 25c package/postage. m
SB HB B B B Bfl M llll i 1
• BULT.I
Ltd., whose shops extend throughout
Victoria and New South Wales, are
still holding their own. In fact, they
say they have found that business is
quite brisk. They incline toward
imported prams and more luxurious
items and the parents of 1968, who
have carefully planned families, are
able to buy in this price range.
A buyer for the firm said cheerfully
that mothers seemed to be getting
younger and Australians as a whole
“getting interested in sex earlier.
Every baby these days gets a layette of
its own whether it is a first baby or a
second. Gone are the days of hand-me-
downs.”
But even the best-dressed babies
need only a limited wardrobe and for
many little shops selling babywear
the writing is on the wall. In some
suburbs these Dear Baby and Wee
Willy Winkie boutiques have already
disappeared.
Our Darling in Liverpool Street
almost certainly will close this year,
partly because of development in the
area but also because it is getting
harder to keep going.
“There is definitely not as much
business now,” a saleswoman of many
years’ experience said. “And what there
is stems from New Australians. I
have ten New Australian customers for
every one old Australian. Even so busi-
ness isn’t growing. People don’t seem
to be as interested in christening robes
and beautiful layettes today. The
mothers are so young they don’t want
frills. They look for, well, I don’t
know what they look for. Sometimes I
think they shop in the chainstores.”
They do. They also are inclined
to knit mini football sweaters or dye
athletic singlets for nighties. There are
some extremely crafty-looking infants
enveloped in batik robes and tie-dyed
shirts. “Lovely old worn-out things
from St. Vincent de Paul” is the
choice of one young mother. And many
of the girls trotting round in mini-
tents are hoping to find a range of
really mod babywear. If they don’t
find it they make it themselves.
Baby-food manufacturers and baby-
powder people are still trading steadily,
but the expected 1968/70 baby boom
just isn’t happening. The long pre-
school waiting lists are gradually
shrinking and there may soon be a
time when we won’t really care about
teachers going off to Canada.
Now that the University of Sydney
scientists have successfully tested a
“morning after” contraceptive pill on
rabbits, mice, and rats, there may soon
be even less chance of accidental preg-
nancies.
In 16 years’ time you probably
won’t be able to get an office boy for
love or money. And, just think, those
children who will have been planned
so carefully will have been given more
and more of everything. So the chances
are that the next generation will be
even more rebellious, hairy, and drug-
addicted than this one. On the other
hand, greatly outnumbered by the
oldies, they may all be very, very good.


/OX
*
X
The Hertz Rent-A-Car
19 point check-up:
could your car pass it?
It’s our policy to check every
car 19 ways before we check
it out to you. We check the big
things like hand brake, foot
brake, clutch, steering. And
the little things like the seat
adjustment lever, the heater,
the radio. If they don’t work,
you don’t get the car. So the
car you do get, works.
We do some other things with
our cars your probably can’t
do with your own. Such as
trading them in very early in
life. And stationing them at
convenient offices throughout
Australia. And letting you pick
up a car in one city and leave
it in another.
It’s hard to beat our prices,
too. Hertz rents Fords and
other fine cars at a lower price
than any other major car
rental company in Australia.
And only Hertz has Economile
the special ‘long distance’
rate that saves you money.
Your daily mileage rate can be
reduced up to 50%.
When you want a car to meet
you at the airport or any-
where else, just call Hertz
before you leave.
Hertz pre-booking means the
right car, at the right place, at
the right time. Hertz guaran-
tee it.
Back to the ‘Hertz 19 point
check-up’. If your car can’t
pass it, how about renting one
from us 'til yours is fixed?
Hertz: The key to more than a car.
HZ 124


INTERNATIONAL
Keeping fingers crossed in Prague
The Czech crisis: The Central Committee in session (above) in Prague on Thursday
after the Warsaw Pact countries denounced the Czech liberal reforms. On television,
President Dubcek (centre) promised to stand firm, and in their newspapers Czechs
read the text of the harsh note from Russia and the four Communist-bloc countries
EVERYONE was peering at the
Czechs. The Prague hotels were
crammed with foreign journalists ready
to set off for “the war zone” in hired
Skodas. The streets were full of Ger-
man tourists, East and West, with buses
from Bamberg and Knrl Marx-Stadt,
Munich and Dresden. Instructed by
their Party to “explain to the Czecho-
slovak workers that a West German
imperialist plot is overthrowing
Socialism,” the East German tourists
trudged nervously about the streets,
hoping not to find anyone they might
have to talk to, and the West Germans,
armed with cameras, merely peered.
But the Czechs were providing no
sensations. They were anxious and
tense, but there was no panic. In this
supreme moment of the Czechoslovak
crisis, as the Soviet leaders pondered
where and when to face the new Czech
leader, Alexander Dubcek, and the
columns of Soviet trucks crawled un-
willingly across the land on their tor-
tuous route to the frontier, they were
avoiding drama as only the Czechs
know how.
In the factories work slowed down
and almost stopped. Everywhere, on the
shop floor and in the offices, men and
women clustered around transistor sets
and listened to the terrifying abuse of
last week’s letter condemning the new
Czech reforms ■ from the five countries
of the Warsaw Pact, to the long and
patient answer of the Czechoslovak
Praesidium, to the repeats of Mr.
Dubcek’s television speech, and to pro-
ceedings of the Central Committee
emergency meeting in Prague Castle
which for the first time was being
broadcast live to the people.
In the long, graceful rectangle of
Wenceslas Square the newsvendors pro-
claimed special editions in voices like
cracked bells. And the queues formed
quietly, stocky workmen in cheap blue
shirts, young girls with glass jewellery
and plastic macintoshes, huge old ladies
with varicose veins who seemed etern-
ally to be ferrying giant tankards of
brown beer from one side of the Square
to the other, ancient whiskered men in
ancient whiskered suits who remem-
bered an Austrian Prague and a first
liberal Republic under Thomas Mas-
aryk. They took away these damp,
single sheets on which the minute type,
the blurry photographs, the jargon of
a Communist Press now spoke the
language of freedom.
At the beginning of the week there
was cynicism and doubt: the Party
would not admit the scale of the crisis
and issued only nervous and contra-
dictory statements about Soviet troops
in the country which appeared to play
down the danger. “So .they are just
another lot of Communists,” one man
told me, “who don’t know how to tell
the truth to the people. Who can you
believe?”
Then, in the small hours of Tuesday
morning, the five Warsaw Pact powers
i erase tie text o t ten etter 11 It 1 '
negotiations were now impossible. The
full dimensions of the menace were
plain: the Soviet Union and its four
closest allies - East Germany, Poland
Hungary, and Bulgaria - declared that
counter-revolution was rampant in
Czechoslovakia, that this danger in-
volved the whole Warsaw Pact, that
they could not stand by indifferent. A
wave of horror ran across the country,
less of fear than of scandalised anger.
“Untrue, untrue,” muttered the
listeners as they clutched their radios
and listened to the unwinding catalogue
of abuse
Now Dubcek moved to take the
nation into his confidence. Czech jour-
nalist were called to him on Wednes-
day night and were read the text of
the letter and the reply. Mr. Dubcek
did not warn them to be discreet or
urge them to support him. Instead he
asked: “What do you think? Have we
acted correctly? What is the feeling in
the country?” They talked and
argued, as among friends in time of
trouble, and then the journalists went
away and set about publishing both
documents.
At once the Czechoslovaks began to
draw together round their leaders,
Everywhere people began to draft tele-
grams of support. In one office, where
there were only three Party members,
t he staff wanted to send a message of
encouragement. The director, pale with
anger, said that only Communists
could send messages to Dubcek and,
anyway, he and his two colleagues
(placemen of Antonin Novotny, the
ousted Party leader) hoped the Soviet
Union would break this scandalous ex-
periment. “Shut up!” said the staff:
they locked the director in his room
and wrote their telegram. Afterward,
i n the polite Czech manner, they let him
out and went back to their accounting.
In one hotcl the staff gather ed for a
p arty meeting fa the , WaiterSi
maids in uniform, charwomen, and
receptionists i istened t 0 a brief speech
thek chairman and then / d
a telegram tellin g Mr. Dubcek that
th wer | al| b<;hind him „ s we are
k ; our fingers crossed for him » a
r, ° .
” ‘
Everybody was moved by Mr.
Dubcek s television speech. Awkwardly
fitting his spectacles on to his long nose
he told the nation that the Party would
stand firm by the new course, hoping
still for friendship and co-operation
with the Soviet Union and the Warsaw
Pact. Then he looked up, his charming
duck-billed face creased with special
gravity, and humbly thanked the Czech
and Slovak peoples for their expressions
°f support.
With this he laid a ghost. Since
Munich, when not only the Western
powers but their own government
capitulated to pressure and shattered
patriotic innocence, the Czechs have


been haunted by the fear of betrayal.
“I heard the last sound this people
really made,” said one intellectual.
“It was in 1938: the noise in my house
in Prague as the young volunteers
pulled on their reservist boots and
went thundering down the stairs past
my door. Since then we have been
silent.” Now the long silence is end-
ing in the rising heap of spontaneous
telegrams and the delegations walk-
ing to Prague Castle to make sure
that “their” Mr. Dubcek knows that
they stand right behind him. Nobody
has mobilised public opinion: there
have been no demonstrations. There is
no need for them.
Support comes in from the oddest
quarters. The “young graduates of the
counter-intelligence service” have writ-
ten an open letter indignantly express-
ing “full solidarity and respect” for
Professor Edward Goldstuecker, re-
forming leader of the Writers’ Union,
who was attacked by anonymous anti-
semitic leaflets. The chairman of the
People’s Militia, the paramilitary organ-
isation of factory guards which seemed
at one time to be a nest of “old
guard” followers of Novotny, has also
pledged his men to the new course
without reservations.
Significant of the new mood was the
election of delegates by Party branches
for the emergency Congress in Sep-
tember. For the first time the workers
and even the farmers did not choose
Party-true “yes men” from the factory
floor. Instead, among the 1300 dele-
gates there is a high proportion of
qualified men, scientists, and engineers.
In the branch meetings the workers
said repeatedly that they wanted in-
telligent representatives who would use
their brains and judgment for them.
In the Press fear and anger were
slowly giving way to humor. The
weekly “Literarni Listy,” in a special
edition, had a cartoon of a girl lying
back on a bed. On top of her squats
a minute Soviet tank. She groans:
“Darling, what a wonderful way of
making love to me!” The allegations
in the Warsaw letter that powerful
forces in Czechoslovakia were trying to
restore capitalism were also becoming
a joke. Another cartoon showed an
old Czech asking: “Capitalism? With
our economy?” and collapsing in mock-
ing laughter.
SABAH
FIASCO AT BANGKOK
From HARVEY STOCKWIN in Manila
MALAYSIA'S Yang di Pertuan Agong
and Rajah Permaisuri Agong (King
and Queen) arrived in Kota Kinabalu
(formerly Jesselton), Sabah’s capital,
on a prearranged State visit last week
superbly if coincidentally timed to
demonstrate the obvious. The Sabahan
sovereignty lay with Kuala Lumpur
in a world in which possession is indeed
nine points of the law.
It also reminded that the Malaysians
had nothing to fight about, a reminder
made necessary by President Marcos’
instructions to his defence secretary in
the wake of the long-awaited break-
down of the Sabah-claim talks in
Bangkok.
The two teams had finally run out of
things to say to each other. Faced
with the Filipino refusal to give further
clarifications, the Malaysians bluntly
rejected the Filipino claim in toto. The
Malaysian delegation leader and Per-
manent secretary to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, Tan Sri Ghazali bin
Shafie, gave plenty of reasons in a 17-
page statement for his contention that
the claim was singularly devoid of
substance, divorced from realities, based
on a series of fictions, “followed by
ingenious but fallacious reasoning built
on the well-known art of quotations out
of context, leading inexorably to un-
Philippines Sabah team, Leon Guerrero (left), Presidential Press Secretary Jose
Aspiras (centre), and delegation chief Guattier Bisnar in Bangkok
sound though self-congratulatory con-
clusions.”
In short, the Malaysians gave their
own clarifications and indicated their
own mode of settlement the drop-
ping of the claim. Earlier the Malay-
sians had leaked to their Press that
President Marcos had warned that the
Sabah claim must be kept alive or
relations might be broken off. Accord-
ing to the leakage, Filipino national
honor and domestic politics alike de-
manded that the claim should not be
demolished.
The leak itself, as well as the failure
of the talks, indicated neither country
has shown any more than the barest
minimum of regard for each other’s
face. The very obvious contrast is the
mushawarah which ended what is prob-
ably now best termed as the first con-
frontation. On that occasion the
Malaysians leant over backward to give
the Indonesians face, which they could
afford, since it was the Indonesians who
were, in effect, giving up their earlier
stance, having gained nothing at all.
These Bangkok talks were never a
mushawarah in the first place the
word is variously translatable, but
roughly it means close consultations,
and in practice these are essentially
face-saving, long-drawn-out procedures.
Maybe the Malaysians never even anti-
cipated mushawarah with the “brown
Americans.” Equally, while occasion-
ally the Filipinos claim to be of Malay
stock on this, as on other occasions,
their behaviour has few, if any, Malay
qualities.
But then, as The Bulletin has pointed
out all along on .this issue, face-saving
or compromise over the Sabah claim
is virtually impossible, and all that
the Bangkok talks achieved was to
even further remove it from the realm
of the practical. Obsessed with their
own internal “realities” and far less
aware of outside realities than the
Indonesians ever were, even at their
Sukarnoist heights the Filipinos have
put themselves in the position of expect-
ing Malaysia and others to adjust
to their requirements, an attitude of
mind which is in part a by-product of
the paternalistic and well-nigh incestu-
ous America-Philippines relationship.
This would be understandable if the
Filipinos had even as good a case as the
Indonesians had over Malaysia’s hurried
formation. But they haven’t. And the
Malaysians have naturally grown im-
patient and irritated vith being the butt
of Filipino politics, though by the same
token the scarcely contempt
and superciliousness with which they
have treated the Filipinos would seem
an offshoot of their colonial parentage,
too. (The classic illustration of this
underlying Anglo-American clash was
when the Filipino Ambassador Bisnar
spoke at Bangkok of “sending the claim
to the WC.” He meant the World
Court, but was no doubt puzzled, even
annoyed, by the Malaysian merriment
at his inadvertently expressing in
English English their point of view.)
For Marcos recourse to the World
Court would have put the issue on ice
and given him the chance to boast
electorally that he has succeeded where
Macapagal failed. The fact that the
Filipinos would almost certainly lose,
while Sabah and Malaysia would stay
suspended in prolonged doubt, is in the
context of Filipino politics irrelevant.
When the Malaysians had closed-off
that option, Marcos had some hard
choices to face. If he now did what
he could have done much earlier much


easier dropped the claim he ran
a re-election risk of being portrayed as
a weakling. If he took a tough line —•
breaking relations or some “incidents”
he might quieten the opposition and
hope to compel the neutralists (America
and even Australia) to pressure Malay-
sia to concede more than just the ideal
of co-operation.
On Saturday Marcos fell back on a
tough posture. The Malaysians having
firmly rejected his last-minute call for
resuming the Bangkok talks, the Fili-
pinos, on Saturday, decided to with-
draw all but one of their diplomatic
staff in Kuala Lumpur.
The decision was taken at, and
upon the “unanimous recommendation
of,” the National Foreign Policy Coun-
cil which was, however, still boy-
cotted by the leading Liberals. A Presi-
dential Press statement issued after the
meeting managed in itself although
backed by the columns of the Manila
Press to testify to the way the Fili-
pinos have managed, as a result of the
Bangkok fiasco, to put the Malaysians
in the dock, to their, if not to every-
body else’s, satisfaction. Equally, in
Kuala Lumpur, the situation is the re-
verse. For the Malaysians, the refusal
to clarify determined their rejection,
even as the withdrawal of diplomats has
been taken as indicative of Filipino
mal-intent. The Sabah claim confront-
ation and tragedy is now very
real.
For the “Manila Times” it was
MALAYSIA TIES CUT” “formal
severance is expected to be announced
shortly.” Already two leading Nacional-
ista Senators have said they favored
a complete severance of ties, though,
in this respect, the withdrawal decision
represents a compromise between the
various positions. The hope is that
Malaysia would do the actual severing.
Already those Filipinos demanding a
“real” confrontation are to be heard.
Malaysia’s “peaceful intentions” are
being questioned; infiltrations of
Malaysian spies are being alleged into
the southern Philippines. Briefing the
Yang di Pertuan Agong in Tawau on
Friday, the Malaysian Director of West
Malaysian Operations suggested piracy
or infiltrations to be the two most likely
forms of possible Filipino trouble
making. With the politicians in Manila
talking of recourse to the UN Security
Council, a little violence would, of
course, appear obligatory if that body
is to take cognisance of the dispute.
President Marcos on the surface
gave only a hint of trouble to come
when speaking to the nation on tele-
vision on Sunday night. He contented
himself mainly with rehearsing the
traditional Filipino arguments on the
claim rather as if all the unanswered
questions posed by the Malaysians at
Bangkok had not been understood by
the Filipinos. He stressed to all the
accords and understandings which in
his view Malaysia had broken, while
carefully avoiding discussion of the
Filipino promise and failure to clarify.
The President termed the withdrawal
decision “a painful one” made neces-
sary by “the manifestation of outrage
throughout the whole Filipino nation.”
While he spoke of developments hav-
ing set back regional co-operation, he
made no mention of Malaysia’s offer of
co-operation, only their rejection of
the claim. Then as in the Saturday
statement there was the stress on Mal-
aysia’s “repudiation of her solemn
agreement” to find a peaceful settle-
ment which seems to suggest the Mal-
aysians in Marcos’ view might seek a
violent one—or find themselves accused
of such. All of which left one feeling
no Filipino options had been foreclosed
the old record would go on being
played a good deal louder.
Beyond calculations, beyond the
charges, beyond the allegations, • arrive
in Manila, to experience again just
how terribly far these two ASEAN,
and Australian, neighbors have drifted
apart, just how different everything
looks in the respective capitals, brings
home with sickening impact the verdict
spoken to me not so long ago by one
impartial observer: “The politics of the
Sabah claim present the kind of issue
over which Europeans have been going
to war for centuries.” Violence may not
be imminent, but the environment for
it certainly exists.
AMERICA/THE PRESIDENCY
THE GLAMOR GAP
GOVERNOR Ronald Reagan of Cali-
fornia has ceased to be a covert con-
tender for the Republican nomination.
At the weekend—while carefully avoid-
ing formally declaring his candidature —
he allowed himself to emerge as an
open challenger for the nation’s leader-
ship.
Ever since he started on his three-
day Southern and Eastern States’
“fund-raising” tour in Texas on Friday
afternoon, his has been a fascinating
performance to watch.
The strategic patience and the tacti-
cal make-believe have by no means been
entirely banished. Arriving at an air-
port the Governor shyly remarks that
he is “a little disturbed” at the forest
of banners and placards that he sees
before him though adding very
quickly that he is also “greatly hon-
ored.”
Even on a platform at a massive
evening rally his reticence and modesty
do not desert him. “I am very proud
to be taking part in this wonderful
tribute to your great Congressman,” he
says at the start.
“Ole,” shouts one half of the audi-
ence. “Viva,” responds the other
and even the Governor’s he-man
weather-beaten face has the grace to
crack into a grin. For the truth is that
he is deceiving no one, and he knows
it. Reagan’s hat is now in the con-
vention ring.
Yet to be cynical about Reagan’s
tactics is one thing: to be dismissive of
them is quite another. When the vari-
ous chronicles of this campaign come
to be written it will have to be con-
ceded that his has been an almost flaw-
less piece of political timing. Orches-
trating it has been Clifton White, the
expert political technician who master-
minded Barry Goldwater’s convention
victory in 1964.
Mr. White something of a political
artist in his own right is now widely
suspected of being eager to demon-
strate that he is capable of reaching
the same success as he did in 1964
with a long-standing front-runner by
the opposite route of a last-minute dark
horse in 1968. The odds against that
happening are still pretty heavy, but
they have certainly not discouraged Mr.
White from sticking to his job. Having
started off as an almost invisible con-
sultant, he has now become a public
Reagan and wife ... “new Prince
Charming of the far Right and the
Far West"
and obvious member of the Governor’s
entourage. The biggest thing that White
and Reagan (and it may be that order
is the correct one) have going for them
is the rapidly developing fear within
the Republican Party as to what exactly
George Wallace’s appeal to Right-wing
voters may do to their Party’s chances
when the nation votes in November.
The latest polls show that in a Nixon
v. Humphrey contest the Democratic
Party could only too easily be awarded
victory simply by Wallace’s draining off
a large number of normally Republi-
can Right-wing votes to his American
Independence Party. One response to
that threat would be for the Republi-
cans to try to outflank, the Democrats
on the Left by nominating Nelson
Rockefeller. But a far more appealing
answer to most Republican active Party
workers only too conscious of where
their friends’ predilections lie is for
the Party instead to try to outbid Wal-
lace on the Right by selecting Ronald
Reagan as their standard-bearer.
Nixon and Humphrey have each
made it clear that they want no traffic
at all with Wallace, even to the point
of hinting that, rather than make a deal


with him, they would honor a popular
verdict gained by one or the other at
the November polls. Reagan, however,
coolly conceded last Friday: “A great
many people are finding it very hard
to disagree with what Governor Wallace
has been saying on the issues of this
campaign.”
To most Americans, however, Reagan
is a much more acceptable figure than
Wallace. It is easy to understand why.
He has husky, tanned good looks, an
easy, outgoing manner, and, above all,
a familiar image to a whole generation
of American moviegoers as a regular,
not a far-out, guy. Perhaps never before
has an extremist candidate appeared in
quite such well-cut clothing.
In any other year, Reagan’s personal
assets and not the least of them
perhaps is the aura of horses, riding
boots, and the open country that he
carries around with him might seem
less important.
But it is not necessary to be a Dr.
Gallup to detect a growing sense of
boredom on the part of the American
electorate with the front-running candi-
dates in either Party. Whatever else
they differ on, Hubert Humphrey and
Richard Nixon at least share one thing
in common a bad glamor gap. It is
this gap that Reagan’s supporters are
convinced their candidate is ready-made
to fill.
The evidence so far is slight: a sur-
prise victory for Reagan over Nixon in
winning control of the Utah State
delegation last week, reports of a sud-
den burgeoning support for the Cali-
fornia Governor in other small western
States like Colorado and New Mexico,
and ecstatic rebel yells in Texas at the
end of the week.
The balance of probability remains
that Richard Nixon’s hold on the Re-
publican nomination is so tight that it
cannot be shaken. But if any man is
going to manage it (on a third or fourth
ballot at the Republican convention
only two weeks away) it will not be the
gallant, but battered, monarch of the
western establishment, Nelson Rocke-
feller, but rather the new Prince Charm-
ing of the far Right and the Far West,
Ronald Reagan.
AMERICA/NEGROES
BLACK IN, WHITE OUT
AN EVEN wider division between the
black and white populations in the
United States was projected this week
in an official Washington report. By
1985 the country “would be well on
the road toward a society characterised
by race stratification along racial and
economic lines as well as geographic
separation,” declared a study under-
taken by the National Commission on
Urban Problems.
A projection of population figures by
a group of demographers indicated that
by 1985 central cities will have gained
ten million non-whites, a 94 percent in-
crease, while suburban areas will have
Paul Douglas. .. “the most com-
pelling question for democracy”
gained 54 million whites, a 104 percent
increase.
This would constitute acceleration of
the growing trend of increasingly black
inner cities ringed by expanding white
suburbs.
“The projections vividly portray the
geographical fulfilment and the fears
expressed by the President’s Commis-
sion on Civil Disorders that the
American society is becoming an
apartheid society,” the study’s authors
commented.
Non-whites, because of higher fer-
tility, will increase at a greater rate
throughout the nation than whites, the
authors said. The Negro population of
the country will rise to 14 percent of
the total by 1985 compared to 11 per-
cent in 1960.
Former Senator Paul Douglas, of
Illinois, an advocate of Negro rights,
Chairman of the Commission, said in
releasing the study that “the further
division of our cities by racial groups
raises the most compelling questions for
a democracy.”
The highly qualified population ex-
perts who compiled the study stressed
they were not making predictions but
simply projecting recent and current
trends, Douglas pointed out.
“We hope that, by revealing these
trends, the American people can judge
those which pose the greatest threat to
our social order and then take the
necessary steps to alter them,” he
added.
Although non-whites were expected
to increase numerically in the suburbs,
“they will still be all but lost in a
sea of whites,” said Douglas, “with the
non-white suburban population increas-
ing only from 5 percent to 6 percent
of the total.”
The study did not take into account
possible increase of birth control by
non-whites, nor any new large-scale
programs that might be undertaken to
change the patterns of urban growth.
NEW ZEALAND
THE RISKS OF OPTIMISM
THE TRANSTASMAN trade im-
balance, four to one in Australia’s favor,
has been narrowed in the past year - to
the expressed satisfaction of the New
Zealand Government. In the economic
soul-searching accompanying last week’s
Budget, Finance Minister Muldoon
noted overall improvement in the
balance of payments on current account
from a $132 million deficit last year to
a $37 million surplus this year as vindi-
cation for measures to promote the
resumption of normal economic activity.
Although the Minister said his Budget
would “include no spectacular stimu-
lants to increased activity,” the
economic watchdog Mr. G. Battersby,
chairman of the Monetary and
Economic Council, said, “It may bring
renewed pressure on our balance of
payments.” Battersby said, “The defiicit
before borrowing at $162 million is the
highest ever and the rate of increase
of Government expenditure, at 5.8 per-
cent, contrasts with the less than 2
percent last year. The inevitable in-
crease in national expenditure from this
source, and from likely wage increases,
may bring the pressure,” he said.
Mr. Muldoon’s careful optimism con-
trasts vividly with the millstone his
Government has hewn with a $625
million overseas debt, of which $3OO
million falls due for repayment in the
next five years unless reconversions are
negotiated.
The decline in imports and increase
in exports following deflation and de-
valuation measures contributed to the
change in trade patterns with Australia
and the rest of the world. There was a
16 percent increase in N.Z. exports to
Australia, mainly timber products. The
Government’s economic review says that
effects of devaluation on trade with
Australia have not yet been fully felt,
but the greater possibilities for exports
of manufactured and semi-manufactured
goods are now being taken advantage
of, particularly as the domestic market
is less buoyant.
Changes in the structure of taxation
which will conveniently bring relief to
middle-income voters in next year’s
election year and which erode tradi-
tional egalitarian policies are proposed
in the Budget. Mr. Muldoon said mar-
ginal tax rates rise too sharply in the
middle-income range and that the
maximum rate is reached at a too low
level.
It was a largely wait-and-see Budget.
Controlled stimulation of the economy
by budgetary measures was impeded by
the lull in pressure-group warfare which
has resulted in the employers and
unions making a joint reapplication to
the Arbitration Court for a general
wage order. New Zealand will probably
regain a breath of industrial peace as
the historic decision of the employers
to join the unions in a joint-wage
application changes the political tem-
perature from hot to cold.


'
*
1
m
■
§gjg
I
k
\
\
■
m
Switchcraft
She charms every caller, handles 25 external lines and hundreds of internal extensions, with smooth
efficiency, promotes good customer relations ... and helps with the typing.
The STC Pentaconta PABX transforms
the average switch-girl into a miracle
worker, because it puts automation
at her fingertips. One girl is able to
supervise a large board with ease,
maintaining a level of efficiency which
sets your company apart as modern
and progressive. Telephone delays
and frustrations are largely elimin-
ated. Callers are always answered
promptly, never cut off. You will notice
a speed-up in communications right
through your whole organisation. And
all the time saved can be turned into
time more productively used.
The STC Pushbutton Pentaconta has
made slow, clumsy, plug-and-cord
telephony old fashioned. Not only is
this STC system faster and more
fr©uble-free; it does more for you.
Pentaconta brings you useful features
like group (or department) calling,
direct transfer of calls from one exten-
sion to another, call parking with
automatic reminder to the telephonist
and automatic connection when the
required extension is free, conference
facility, special executive lines, and
many more.
STC Pentaconta is, you see, much
more than a business telephone
system. It’s a new concept in com-
munications, designed to make a
business more profitable.
Better find out about it from Standard
Telephones and Cables Pty. Limited,
252 Botany Road, Alexandria, Sydney.
Phone: 69 0444. Melbourne 480 1255.
Canberra 49 8667.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane 47 4311. S.A.: Unbehaun &
Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide 51 3731. W.A.:
M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth 21 6461. TAS.:
W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston
312511. Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
AN
ITT
world-wide telecommunications and electronics
ASSOCIATE
©
ZSO2A


Playing the art market
Rudy Komon ... things are changing
THE AUSTRALIAN art market is a
confusing world of contradictions and
pretentions, of weak and wobbly taste,
and no end of jiggery-pokery. But in
the opinion of Sydney dealer Mr.
Rudy Komon, one of its older-
established and more stable inhabitants,
it is alive and growing so the in-
fighting, the price manipulation, and
ignorance can be borne with goodwill.
The coachloads of time-spinning,
middle-aged women who descend on
morning jaunts to giggle at the latest
painted offerings of Paddington are as
acceptable as pubescent pimples, for
things will change.
There are around 40 “galleries” in
Sydney alone. Ten years ago there were
three. Mr. Komon would like to see
more, although he seems perfectly
aware that the majority already have
nothing to do with art and quite simply
couldn’t be good at their trade any-
where. ever, in any circumstances. But
"paintings are either art or they are
not,” says Mr. Komon, modestly
implying that time alone will tell. In
the meantime, taste will develop, the
frauds and the dilettantes will fade,
prices will stabilise, the women will
either grow bored or become interested.
For the moment, there is little sign of
the “boom,” which the artistic junket-
ings of the past five years have been
consistently and enthusiastically
labelled.
It is all a jolly nationalistic sort of
affair; the painters of other countries
and other times don’t come into it
much at all, as some dealers have
found to their cost. The practice of
buying the works of well-established
painters on the world art market,
“within a limited price range,” for
resale in Australia was tried by the
Clune Gallery in 1963 and discontinued
as unprofitable some three years later.
Among those who could not find buyers
were Matisse and Modigliani. The
names, says Frank McDonald, present
owner of the Gallery, meant nothing
here.
Others maintain that, of course, there
are lots of people here who would have
liked a good Modigliani over the
mantelpiece. But since Mr. McDonald
had imposed on his purchases a limited
price range—one within which he
thought Australians would be prepared
to buy—no good Modiglianis had
turned up. More to the point is the
suggestion that the Australian market
knows very little about international
price structures and this, coupled with
the difficulty of knowing a good Matisse
if you see one, created a general lack
of confidence which not even the
powerful forces of conspicuous con-
sumption could overcome.
The extraordinary belief persists in
some quarters that the ’sixties will go
down in the world’s art history as some
sort of “Antipodean” period, although
it developed from, and is only part of,
a general revival and broadening of
interest in the Western world which
began in the early ’fifties. The Austra-
lian art scene remains inbred, ingrown,
a world and a law unto itself, and those
entrepreneurs who do have some ink-
ling on how things function in London
or New York seem pretty well con-
vinced that the majority of their asso-
ciates would expire there within the
week, that the current seers and self-
styled scholars of art would mostly be
exposed as myopic amateurs.
Mr. Komon is more generous, and
suggests that dealers, critics, and artists
alike should all travel the intei'na-
tional circuit at least once a year;
should, for the moment, cease their
dallyings with glossy magazines and get
down to some serious bookworming.
The ignorance is not confined to the
finer techniques of Matisse or the inter-
national price structure for Modigliani.
On a more basic level there is much
misunderstanding of the modern, purely
economic function of art as a currency
hedge, and at the other extreme a
remarkable resistance against any sort
of spiritual function.
There are some vague and ill-founded
concepts of art as an investment along
“paintings look more attractive on the
wall than a share portfolio” lines, or
“I don’t know much about art, but I
know what appreciates.” But the sub-
stantial argument remains that to
become a successful investor in the fine
arts you need to acquire some real
appreciation of them, even in Aus-
tralia. If you derive aesthetic delights
from your paintings they will become
a worthwhile investment. If not, you
can buy Taubmans at about $1 with
a dividend yield of 7.9 percent.
There is, certainly, a rapidly de-
veloping awareness of “art as educa-
tion.” It can be interesting, stimulating,
experimental, or merely flattering. Some
dealers make occasional and somewhat
embarrassed references to “art as an
intellectual experience.” But it cannot
yet be enjoyed for its own sake. Those
ecstasies of the spirit which works of
art are still reputed to be capable of


By BRIAN HOAD
giving can sometimes be considered un-
Australian.
But things are changing, as Mr.
Komon says, recalling nostalgically
those not-so-long-dead days when he
would be summoned excitedly to inspect
a painting by Van Gogh, to find him-
self confronting a print. Ten years
ago, too, there were at most two or
three painters who could make a living
at painting here, and now “Well,
about ten times that many,” hazards
Mr. Komon, who thinks it is good in
that it encourages them to stay in Aus-
tralia, and not so good that there is
already a tendency to promote young
artists too soon to wine them and
dine them and smother all hope of the
promise there seemed to be in the
peripheral activities of critics, 'officials,
patrons, and trustees, and in the nervous
speculation over tactics or strategy or
other irrelevant considerations.
Painters should be supported and
then left alone to get on with their
painting. A few dealers, including Mr.
Komon, do aim for this ideal, but
there is a living to be made as well,
and inevitably strings become attached.
It is all part of the system which has
been building up in the Western world
for the past ten years and which, in a
fragmentary fashion, has permeated
Australia whether Australia cares to
recognise the fact or not. The system
involves promotion, publicity, novelty,
stepped-up production, secretaries,
filing cabinets, and boxes full of color
transparencies. Painting used to be a
solitary and unpublicised activity. It is
now becoming another slick branch of
show business.
Through the new approach, many
more painters have been.able to discard
their burdensome bohemian image, to
accept the practical responsibilities of
wives and children, to find security.
Now there are the monthly cheques
from the sponsor-dealers to be set
against work received. In some
countries there is already a tendency
toward written agreements and con-
tracts in an attempt to stabilise the
relationships, but not here as yet. “You
can’t force a painter to paint,” suggests
Mr. Komon, relying on his gambling
instinct and good faith in an artist’s
word and work. But the pressures of
the system are nonetheless toward over-
production on the painter’s part and
overselling by dealers out to recoup
their extra outlay.
Ideally, the detached support really
required could be supplied from Gov-
Barry Stern ... no Antipodean Duveen


ernment sources, and some dealers be-
lieve that a good deal more could be
done for painters, paintings, and sculp-
tors —“the black sheep of the art world
here”—by way of some full-blooded
commissions, just for a start. But that
would be to presuppose a cool “arts”
policy supported by hard cash. In
Government attitudes there is mostly
indifference and the occasional wild
delusion of grandeur.
A positive Government attitude
toward the arts does not necessarily
involve anything more than the expen-
diture of a little bit of imagination. It
would have been nice, for example, to
have been able to suppose that the
recent hoisting of Drysdale’s
“Cricketers” on to the market at
$45,000 just could have been a con-
scious ploy on the part of the dealer,
Mr. Barry Stern, to offer a much-cele-
brated tax get-out for some over-
successful punter or industrialist at the
end of the financial year. Which would
be to suppose that the Taxation Depart-
ment was farsighted enough to allow
as a tax deduction the purchase of a
work of art which could be enjoyed
by the purchaser during his lifetime
provided that it passed to the State on
his death; in preparation, as it were, to
fill the empty 125,000 sq. ft. of the
proposed $5 million National Gallery at
Canberra.
Twelve teams of architects have been
recently mulling over how best to
achieve the Prime Minister’s directive
for “something vigorous and imagina-
tive, with a touch of adventure as a
National Gallery.” But what will fill
this edifice if and when it materialises
is anybody’s guess.
On the other side of the Government
coin gloomily sits Mr. Hal Missingham,
who, taking over the direction of the
archaic and unfinished (circa 1909)
Art Gallery of New South Wales many
years ago, has bravely fought to build
a collection on a shoestring (stretched
from $6OOO to a current $40,000 a year)
and provide a building which was at
least weatherproof. Plans for the Gal-
lery’s improvement and expansion, laid
as far back as 1962, were firmly
squashed by the incoming Government
of 1966, and Mr. Missingham has
retreated into sombre silence, whether
of defeat or defiance he will not say.
But it must all be very galling for
him, sitting in his ramshackle and
impoverished gallery contemplating,
say, the lucid, damp-proofed spacious-
ness of the Bonython Gallery up the
hill at Paddington or the success with
which Mr. Stern is pushing the prices
of paintings to heights beyond the
reach of Mr. Missinghain’s annual
allowance.
If Mr. Missingham is depressed by
Government indifference, Mr. Stern is
very chirpy indeed about how well
business is doing despite it, and to some
extent because of it. Australia is one
of the few countries in the world which
imposes no export restrictions on works
of art. On the debit side of this state
of affairs, Mr. Komon recalls the rich
collections of paintings brought here
by European refugees which have been
steadily drained off to markets abroad.
But for less scrupulous dealers, a useful
tool has been provided with which to
manipulate an excessively patriotic
market.
In fairness, one has to observe that
Mr. Stern did not use this particular
ploy in the case of the “Cricketers.”
He did not have to. It had already
had more than its fair share of pub-
licity. Everyone knew that Mr. Stern
had bought it for $40,000 from Julian
Sterling in the Southern Cross Gallery
in Melbourne, and Mr. Sterling had
Hal Missingham, of the Art Gallery of New South Wales.. . bravely fighting
already made it abundantly clear that
“wealthy Americans are itching to buy
this national treasure.” Mr. Stern’s
announcement on the “Cricketers” in a
double-page spread of Sydney’s “Daily
Telegraph” was an exemplar of good
taste: no mention of foreign buyers; no
mention of money; no mention even
that the thing was for sale. And,
indeed, Mr. Stern wasn’t particularly
concerned for the moment whether he
sold it or not. Its presence was intended
more as some irresistible cultural flame,
attracting the customers and illumi-
nating for them the desirability of three
floors of "lesser” works.
It was an interesting development
from the case of a Nolan “Burke and
Wills” some weeks before. For that,
there was the veiled threat of an immin-
ent departure, not only of a “national
art treasure” but of the “greatest paint-
ing produced in Australia this century,”
offered to “Australian collectors” at
$35,000 and rapidly snapped up by an
anonymous buyer who did not, Mr.
Stern circuitously suggests, wish to have
his name associated with the vulgarity
of a publicity stunt. A sale at an extra-
ordinary “unrealistic” price was none-
theless made. And yet was it so “un-
realistic” after all?
The subject of art as a marketable
commodity has fascinated and be-
wildered economists for years. It is
not frequently reduced simply to a
matter of money, though there is at
least one Swiss bank which keeps a
notable proportion of its reserves
locked away in the vaults as 18th-
century French paintings, and there are
increasingly frequent anecdotes from
dealers in London and New York of
prospective purchasers who phone up
and ask for any Monet or Pissarro “at
market” as if they were so much share
scrip. Such attitudes may seem exces-
sive, but it is impossible for art to
escape its commercial context.
The only real danger is to suppose
that the price of a painting determines


“like a blooming
country girl\
whose freshness is
her charm ”
These are the words of Alexis Lichine
(author of the Encyclopaedia of wine and
spirits) describing one of his favourite
selections — The young Beaujolais-Vil-
lages. As with blooming country girls
this wine is at its best when it’s young.
Not so long ago the only Beaujolais to
be seen was in grey mugs with blue
trimmings in the cafes of Lyons and
disappearing down the throats of the
men of Lyons. Which brings us to
the point that Beaujolais Villages is
to be drunk, not sipped. 1966
Beaujolais Villages, which is at its
peak, is now available from hotels
and wine merchants who know
their stuff.
Beaujolais Villages (1966) 2.50
(Metropolitan)
Chateauneuf-Du-Pape (1966) 3-00
(Metropolitan)
Vosne Romanee (1964) 3-75
<MetropolitanI
Chateau Lafite Rothschild (1962)
(Metropolitan) 9-00
All enquiries and locations of
Metropolitan Stockists contact:
Liquor Marketing Services — in
the best of Spirits.
Phone 35 1715 —31 4007
* ALEXIS LICHiNE SELBCTi Ci
k. 1966
c***I*' 1 *'
V&fOtA&yßi*#!
:KISP -
B.V.250
its aesthetic value. It is advisable to
avoid asking why a painting has value
and inquire, rather, what determines
its value.
It was probably more than coinci-
dence that the new Western awakening
to art was born and continues to prosper
apace in a world of increasingly wobbly
currency systems. In such dark and
dangerous times art is being bought not
so much for art’s sake as a currency
hedge. It has proved its reliability
before. During tbe ’thirties those who
managed to hang on to their Titians
until prosperity was restored found that
they had refined, and in many cases
improved, the value of their original
investment in real terms.
But there have been notable and
permanent casualties in the game. The
Gainsboroughs, Reynolds, and Romneys
selling for as much as $200,009 in the
’twenties suffered a collapse from which
they have never recovered, not even in
paper terms. But they were the special
market of Lord Duvecn, probably one
of the most flamboyant and powerful
dealers to have prowled the art world.
His sales and purchases were spectacular
and outrageous enough to affect the
entire world price structure for 18th-
cenfury English paintings. But at the
end of the ’thirties, having come
through the slump with impunity, his
price structure died with him.
In a less obvious way, countries, too,
can impart to particular schools of
paintings degrees of stability or in-
stability relative to the standing of their
own particular currency on the world
market. One danger of the isolated
market that Australia is contriving for
its pictures is that it is entirely reliant
on the continuing prosperity of Aus-
tralia. Should that slip, then the paint-
ings slip, too, for there is no world
market for them at current Australian
prices. In a similar way, the current
demand for Impressionist and Modern
schools comes mostly from America,
and, although bought on a world scale
in a world market, the international
currency hedgers are, in fact, con-
centrating in a market which is as vul-
nerable as the American dollar. There
was more than a modicum of good
economic sense in the recent advice of
Sotheby’s representative here for Aus-
tralian investors to widen their interests
away from a purely national collection
into the field of European old masters.
Old masters, for example, have a high
standing against the Deutsche Mark.
And, what is more, the comparatively
rare drawings of, for example, Goya
can be had for about half the price
commanded by the apparently limitless
supply from Picasso.
At the moment there are few fears
of a major recession in the Australian
economy, not among the art dealers at
least. Indeed, they see their current
prosperity as a direct extension of, say,
the mining boom. In some cases they
are following the pattern too closely.
There may be good reason for a mining
share to double its value in a year. But


SA2BSC
* ’
m
V
mm
mm,
mm
I
d
M
a gentle
smoke
gentle
smoke
AMPHORA
This is Australia's leading imported pipe tobacco, for it is made from
the world's choicest tobacco leaf, each masterfully mellowed and
blended. Pick a pouch of Amphora in the blend to suit your taste
it will give a mild, gentle but satisfying enjoyment.
2oz.
68c
Regular blend is in the BROWN pouch, Mild Aro-
matic is in the BLUE and Full Aromatic is in the
RED pouch. Two ounces are only 68c. Also
available in Boz. tins for $2.67.
A product of Douwe Egberts Royai Factories, Utrecht, Holland.
m
that the “Cricketers” can undergo a
similar mark-up smacks of the band-
wagon.
Mr. Stern admits that he has little
time for the finer philosophies of the art
world. Meeting people—6o percent of
his sales are made over the dinner table,
or over breakfast—dealing, travelling,
and making money leaves little time
for much else. Artists he does not
care to sponsor or promote “because
of the teethmarks they leave in the
hand.” And bright talents he does not
care to seek out, for there are more
than enough people doing that. Mr.
Stern prides himself on a good eye for
paintings: “I never make a mistake.
I buy the best of the day to sell, and
the best of the young talents to salt
away for a couple of years.” He admits
to cheek and enthusiasm; he also pos-
sesses the charmingly ruthless quality of
a successful salesman, and some of his
acquaintances like to think of him as
an Antipodean Duveen. But that he
is not.
Mr. Stern’s prices remain Mr. Stern’s
prices. And although he likes to think
that we shall all be looking back on
1968 as the year that the prices of
Australian paintings in general took the
big step forward there certainly seems
little sign of anything unprecedented
at present. The Stern-Nolan “Burke
and Wills,” for example, sold for
$35,000, was followed with embarrassing
rapidity by the Nolan “Burke and
Wills” sold at Gray’s auction rooms in
Sydney for $3OOO. Mr. Stern says that
his Nolan was at least ten times “better”
and that, anyway, the auction system
here is just too awful to reflect realistic
prices. Lord Duveen, one may safely
guess, would have been down at Gray’s
relentlessly pushing up the price to at
least $30,000.
On this score, even Mr. Missingham,
at the New South Wales Gallery, was
drawn to break his silence, and point
out that the auction price was indeed
the realistic price, fitting in quite well
with a Nolan landscape of medium size
which had just sold in London at $lO7l
and which here should fetch no more
than $2OOO.
Why then should dealers in general
hold the Australian auction system in
contempt? Rudy Komon’s main com-
plaint is that they are too tedious and
too scruffy. To some extent he is right.
The chummy sales-talk, something
more suited to the fairground, does
tend to drag out the proceedings, while
the clientele (which is to a large extent
made up from “bargain hunters” ignor-
ant of price structures and largely bid-
ding on erratic impulse) tends to make
matters worse. The scruffiness, however,
is endemic to all auction rooms, and to
see a Rembrandt still able to hold its
own in the cluttered jumble-sale atmos-
phere of Sotheby’s, say, is to appreciate
still more its genius for which prices in
the million-dollar range are, after all,
more or less irrelevant.
Other criticisms, too, seem not wholly
justified. Cataloguing inaccuracies


No need to
tie up
your money
for a
fixed period
to earn at
u
m
NET P.A
INVEST WITH THE
‘N.S.W.
PERMANENT’
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
There is no fixed period
required for you to
earn a secured, safe
6% net p.a. return.
Withdrawals may be
made easily in full, or
part, without loss or
penalty of earnings.
Make a sound
investment with
Australia's leading
permanent building
society, with assets of $57,000,000, and see
your money grow with safety.
No costs or charges • Starts earning from
first day • Earnings paid twice yearly, June
and December.
igT building
Funds guaranteed
for withdrawal up to
Jlo,oooperinvestor
FREE INVESTMENT PACK GIVES YOU ALL
DETAILS—SEND YOUR COUPON NOW OR
PHONE:
Bondi Junction Branch: 5A Bronte Road 38 5259
Burwood Branch: 109 Burwood Road 747 4426
Chatswood Branch: 797 Pacific Highway 419 2261
Parramatta Branch: 331 Church St, 635 4990
[TO: N.S.W. PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.,
“Co-operation House,’’ 125 Bathurst Street
| (between Castlereagh and Pitt Streets), Sydney.
Phone 61-8721. Please mail me your new
'investment Pack, without obligation to me.
| Name
■ Address
I N 56
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY
occur in the best of auction rooms.
There is the now infamous case of a
painting of “Daniel in the Lions’ Den”
by a “minor 17th-century Flemish
artist,” sold in London a couple of
years ago for $lOOO and later resold to
a museum in the U.S. as a Rubens at
$200,000. On the other hand, there was
the ‘‘Judgment of Paris,” which
Christie’s hailed as a Rubens, a point
on which the dealers begged to differ,
and the picture was' withdrawn from
sale. It reappeared some little while
later in the National Gallery in London
labelled as a Rubens again, suggesting
not that anybody in particular was right
or wrong, but that auctioneers, dealers,
and academics alike had equally strong
reserves of scholastic opinion to call on,
and the courage of their convictions.
The weakness of the Australian
auction system is really no more than
a part of the general weakness in
scholarship and discrimination, the lack
of confidence and the madly fluctuating
price structures that result.
There is one unique aspect of the
Australian auction system —the money-
back guarantee of authenticity. It is
a generous bid on the part of the
auctioneers to bring a little faith and
stability into the market, but Warren
Elstub, who handles the picture sales
for Gray’s, makes no bones about its
difficulties. There are no established
sources of knowledge or arbitration. He
can go to the artist, if the artist is
alive and willing, or he can go to the
collectors and dealers who have special-
ised in this or that painter’s work. And
that is about all. If a disgruntled buyer
can do better, then Mr. Elstub is quite
willing to be persuaded that he is
wrong. Australian auctioneers, he says,
claim expertise only in auctioneering.
As things stand, there is probably
little more the auctioneers can do. But
the market stands wide open to the
forger. The latest hushed rumors circu-
late around the increasingly fashionable
and pricy Streeton-Conder-Roberts
group. Take one Victorian painting of
moderate competence and appropriate
character, add one signature, and just
who is going to throw the first stone?
There is at least one reason why the
dealers would not, perhaps, want the
status quo of the Australian auction
houses changed. With a relatively
small market, a limited number of
paintings to handle, and so many gal-
leries, one wonders how sufficient busi-
ness is achieved to keep the dealers in
business. One major factor is the
extensive turnover that occurs for
reasons of changing decor or change of
house or plain boredom with a collec-
tion of “minor” works which could be
traded in for a couple of much more
conspicuous Nolans. It might seem a
bit dilettante, but Mr. Stern believes
that it also encourages greater under-
standing and appreciation. One would
like to hope that he is right. You
cannot impose taste on people, but it
is reasonable to believe that by expos-
ing them to a picture, assuming they
live with it for a reasonable length of
time and assuming that it is any good,
there is every chance that they will
grow to understand it and like it. Most
dealers would agree with that. The
resales, on commissions which are said
to range between five and 30 percent
compared with Ipercent at the sale-
rooms, form a not insignificant part of
their- profits.
And yet with Sotheby’s already set-
ting up in Melbourne, and the arrival
of Christie’s under consideration for
Sydney, where their first telephone link-
up with a sale of Australian paintings
in London has been carried off success-
fully, the dealers are by and large de-
lighted with rumors that actual auctions
could be appearing in the foreseeable
future. Stabilisation of the price struc-
ture, a greater confidence in the public,
an expansion in demand, and, conse-
quently, more logical appreciations in
values are what is hoped for.
But the point remains that some
people, somewhere, have got to get
down to churning out modern Aus-
tralian art monographs and histories
and scholastic critiques. It is to be
hoped that in the Lansdowne Press’
recent $1.5 million plan to produce an
Australian “art library” a. start is being
made. For should Sotheby’s and
Christie’s decide to set up art auctions
here and for the moment there is a
note of caution in the air, a slightly
bitter taste of money, markets, and
material misjudged knowledgeable
entrepreneurs and a well-informed art
public are two essential ingredients of
a successful auction system which they
cannot supply.
The informing of the public has
already been under way for some six
years. With the Wyndham Plan, intro-
duced in 1962, art became a compulsory
subject in N.S.W. secondary schools
and an acceptable subject for the
School Certificate. It became as much
to do with sculpting or firing a ceramic
as it did with painting and drawing.
Asian temples were found to be as
worthy of consideration as the Greek.
Hals and Vermeer were weeded out
to make room for Picasso and Pollock
and Nolan as well.
Art was found to have a history, not
drifting in some ethereal vacuum, but
firmly locked into the great periods of
human progress. And art was seen to
be a way of opening minds and opening
eyes to life in general, whether it is to
be spent conducting a bus or directing a
company.
Mr. Komon is, genuinely delighted
when potential buyers bring their chil-
dren to give an opinion on whether or
not a certain purchase should be made,
and most dealers willingly throw open
their doors to boisterous school parties,
impressed by the interest and en-
thusiasm shown. As Barry Stern said:
“It’s like getting to know tomorrow’s
customers, and they’ll be better-
educated ones at that.” So it looks like
the art boom will happen after all, but
in about ten years’ time.


rz
£.7!'
/ ss
Nil
£
1 >
<3
i ' i
1 H i
rjsS^fS?-
?4
hot
V'l
*
*«' -N
ft 'S':
vt
s'
:
Lr
r
T.
JH
/f
>
r A
7
is
n
‘ Cs*
P ttil^
--
i r~
M^CY
ffS
7 M
A A
x-:
il J&j A^T
X\
U-f
it
. ;~V
i
»
;5\
r-1
(TJ
y yr"-'<+<**l*h
k:
f ]»lb
ii fi®
1
«
■■ v
w
*1!
I .1
f^i
Lfl
\K -
2
'AASZ.Aim
V-
Ti
<»'■
rft
K
n
n
r"
■*-
h '*^v
r
:i
»*w*
, --'-I'
A
Ff:
-15 S»
<.v\ i
-,} r.
=aat
f r ro
=fedfyj>
>
..
;
It —
lr
7
Olympic
19GO
WITH A NATION
Australian industry depends heavily
on electric power, and as industry
grows so do its demands for
energy. Olympic Cables pro-
vide a complete range of wires
cables and flexibles for
every electrical use and
are constantly increas-
ing their capacity to
serve the needs of
the nation.
Olympic cables
help you live better electrically


The city undergrounds!
Sydney,yes! Melbourne, no!
By PETER SAMUEL
A LETTER from Victorian Premier
Sir Henry Bolte arrived at the Treasury
Department in Canberra last Monday,
after spending several days in the Prime
Minister’s office. In his letter Sir
Henry formally lodged his request for
Canberra’s help in financing Mel-
bourne’s underground railway project.
Sir Henry is not likely to get a reply
until another letter arrives in Canberra
—from N.S.W. Premier Askin on behalf
of Sydney’s underground.
Mr. Askin and Sir Henry last year
made similar requests and were knocked
back. But this year they have a much
better chance of getting a favorable
reply to their letters, because Prime
Minister Gorton believes that some of
Australia’s most important development
schemes can lie in its cities.
“Development,” the Prime Minister
has said, “is a word which covers a vast
area of Australia’s activity. Too often
it is assumed to be merely that kind of
development which takes place in
country areas by the building of dams
or beef roads or some other thing of
that kind. Essential as these forms of
development are, they are not the only
meaning of development, for we have in
Australia cities which are going to be
at least twice as large as now, in which
congestion of traffic is going to pose
really vast economic problems in the
future.”
Mr. Gorton is undoubtedly right
about the value to national development
of measures to improve metropolitan
transport. Some of the greatest prod-
uctivity gains in the economy are to
be had through improving the efficiency
of our great urban areas, since these
are where most of the nation’s business
is done. Economists can show quite
convincingly that investment in urban
transportation will often yield returns
to the community of 20 or 30 percent —
returns which can probably only be
matched in big growth industries like
beef cattle in the North, minerals, and
natural gas. It is true that returns on
investment in urban transportation
cannot often be collected directly by
the authority constructing them (toll-
roads are generally impractical), but
the returns are real nonetheless. They
accrue to business and citizens generally
in reduced costs —in time-saving,
accident reduction, and improved
vehicle efficiency.
It has been traditional in Australia
for the Federal Government to keep
out of metropolitan tr. isport works. It
has been ready to find tens of millions
of dollars for railway projects (over
$l5O million has been spent on
standardisation) and country roads (the
beef roads in particular). But, strangely,
it has never adopted any transportation
project in the capital cities. Mr. Gorton
has an opportunity to innovate by
changing this.
But it is one thing to favor the
alleviation of metropolitan traffic
problems; it is another to give money
to underground railway projects in
particular. Underground railways are
only one means to the general end of
better city transport. The Premiers’
proposals should be carefully scrutinised
and compared for priority and cost-
effectiveness with alternatives to see
if they are the best way to handling
the problem.
The first thing which everyone points
out is the complete dissimilarity be-
tween the objectives of the Sydney and
Melbourne projects. The Sydney
underground is an extension of the
suburban railway system from the
central business district to tap dormi-
tory suburbs so far served only by
buses. The Melbourne proposal is for
a loop line within the central business
district to improve delivery and pick-up
of passengers from the existing suburban
network, on which no extensions are
planned.
Of the two, the Eastern Suburbs
project has been the more thoroughly
researched. The famous international
consulting firm of De Leuw, Cather
was responsible for the project as it
stands at present, although various
plans have been made and digging
done intermittently over most, of this
century. In a report in 1963 they
recommended the project as a financial
proposition which would yield an
operating surplus of between $900,000
and $1,300,000 on an outlay of around
$6O million, that is, between 1.5 and
2.2 percent. In addition, it would pro-
duce community benefits by way of
reducing congestion and travel times
for road-users, but these were not
estimated by the American firm. So,
unfortunately, the report was not a
full cost-benefit analysis and does not
in itself convincingly justify the scheme.
Two economists have attempted this:
Professor Ted Kolsen, of the University
of Sydney, and Mr. Peter Forsyth, of
Macquarie. In a paper presented to a
Joint Urbanisation Seminar in Canberra
last June they put their estimates of the
non-commercial benefits of the project
as between $1,116,000 and $1,716,000
a year. On this basis and assuming the
cost has risen to $BO million, the project
would yield the community between
2.3 and 3.5 percent, adding in both
commercial and social returns. There-
fore, says Professor Kolsen, the project
is a misuse of public funds. But Mr.
Forsyth says the project has “not been
justified,” and that a more thorough
estimate and analysis is necessary.
The authors themselves admit that
their figuring is very tentative, and the
paper was not well received at the
seminar. Economists in the Urban
Research Unit in Canberra think that
Kolsen and Forsyth were too pessimistic
about the project. So, of course, do
people in the N.S.W. Government Rail-
ways. It appears that they may have
underestimated the value of the project
in a number of ways:
® They used a figure of $1 an hour as
the value which the average Eastern
Suburbs traveller will place on his time,
and since time savings account for about
90 percent of the social benefits of the
project any underestimation here is
crucial. One dollar is surely a low
figure, especially when you look ahead
over the life of the project.
• They do not appear to have estimated
benefits of the saving to commercial
vehicles from reduced bus and car
traffic, or to have estimated the value
of reduced road accidents.
• Their assessment understates the
benefits that derive from the fact that
the project provides extra tracks to
Central and Town Hall stations in the
central business district and provides a
new station right in the heart of Sydney
at Martin Place. This means that the
Victoria’s Transport Minister Wilcox
shows N.S.W. Transport Minister Morris
the Melbourne underground plan
Erskineville to Martin Place section can
at least partly be charged to the sub-
urban system as a whole. Kolsen and
Forsyth recognise this in principle by
including a figure of $73,000 to $llO,OOO
for the annual value to the system in
the list of benefits. But this looks far
too low.
Mr. Forsyth makes two important
points which improve the look of the
project. The first is that it will have
substantially better results if improved
rolling stock is used. Based on De Leuw,
Cather’s estimates of travel times, it has
been calculated that a 25 percent
increase in the average speed of trains
will attract between 16 and 20 percent
more passengers. Such trains would add
about $2 million to the total cost of
the project, but they would spread the
overhead costs of line construction and


in the final result improve both financial
and social benefits by 50 percent.
Another point he makes is that the
project will work much better if it is
not built its full seven miles to Kings-
ford. Beyond the four-mile point at
Bondi Junction the line twists south and
the faster speed of the train is increas-
ingly offset by the greater distance com-
pared to road; in addition it moves into
an area of lower population density
where passengers will be scarcer. He
says that almost half the cost of the
project could be saved by terminating it
at Bondi Junction, and less than a third
of the benefits lost.
Modern equipment and making Bondi
Junction the terminal might make it a
5 or 6 percent project even on the pessi-
mistic assumptions Kolsen and Forsyth
built into their model. On these condi-
tions it should be a goer as far as the
Commonwealth is concerned.
The Melbourne proposal is almost
exactly similar in scale to the Sydney
one—36 track miles, and the same
amount of money, $BO million. But it
Is four miles of quadruple track com-
pared to eight of double track in Sydney
and the arguments in its favor look
much weaker.
Only one analysis of it has been done,
and that has not been published. This
was by transport economist Dr. Stewart
Joy, now an adviser to the British Gov-
ernment.
It was put to him by the Victorian
Railway that they needed the under-
ground loopline to break what they
describe as a bottleneck on the whole
suburban system: Flinders Street railway
station, wfiiich cannot take more trains
at peak periods because the really busy
tracks from the east and south must
pass through the storage yards to get to
Flinders Street to unload, then each
train must back out into the storage
yard before the next train can move
in. The underground loopline would
enable trains to be passed clockwfise
around the city and back into the
storage yards. They could wait there
until the evening peak, when they could
be driven back anti-clockwise, and
passed steadily through Flinders Street
out to the east and south taking com-
muters home. The Victorian Railways
say that Flinders Street station is also a
bottleneck because its platforms and
stairs and subways simply cannot handle
more passengers at peak periods.
It is important to note that the
Victorian Railways do -not claim that
through the underground they will gain
significantly more passengers. Working
on this basis, Dr. Joy did not see it as
a matter of benefit-cost analysis,
since there would be no real basis on
which to calculate time savings through
transferral of traffic from road to rail.
He saw his job as being initially one
of working out w'hether the under-
ground loopline was the cheapest way
of breaking the Flinders Street bottle-
neck. His report said it was not. That
bottleneck could be broken by other
measures.
Relatively inexpensive modifications
to the trackwork and switchovers would
enable a number of trains now being
backed out and parked (and so block-
ing incoming trains) to be passed
through. This might at some later
stage create a new bottleneck, but a
more flexible scheduling system pro-
grammed by computers could evidently
enable the existing structures to cope
with far bigger volumes of train traffic.
Extra platform space could be made
by abandoning two short four-mile lines
which go out to St. Kilda and Port
Melbourne, which in case should be
closed, because they incur substantial
losses. Beyond these measures Joy
found that the Railways estimated a
33 percent increase in southern and
eastern peak traffic could be fully
catered for by construction works
valued at $3O million compared to the
$BO million for the underground loop-
line.
All sorts of other criticisms are
expressed of the $BO million proposal.
One is that its plan for quadruple tracks
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs plan.. . “a
really good social investment”
is unnecessary. The bottleneck occurs
only on two incoming tracks, and so, it
is argued, it is only necessary to elimin-
ate backing into the storage yards on
these. A two-track loopline underground
would probably cost only $5O million,
a saving of $3O million.
Another criticism is that the position-
ing of the loopline in Latrobe Street
does not provide stations where they are
really needed. According to an origin-
destination survey of pedestrian move-
ment within the city, the new stations
along Latrobe Street will not shorten
average walking times very much. The
mass of commuters pour out of Flinders
Street station into offices in the financial
heart of the city, which is only half a
mile away to the north-west. They won’t
use the new loopline stations in Latrobe
Street. It would extend their train jour-
ney about five minutes and not get many
of them any closer to their destination.
Almost all the office building of the
past 20 years has been in closer proxim-
ity to Flinders Street than to the pro-
posed loopline stations, and it will take
many years more of office building to
alter that.
It would appear then that a better
project than loopline stations would be
work to increase the capacity of
Flinders Street railway station with
escalators, moving walks, and pedestrian
subways leading out to the north. Some
major rebuilding of the station might
well be self-financing, since airspace
overhead can be sold for office con-
struction.
Another point in favor of reconstruc-
tion of Flinders Street station is said to
be that this would allow the Victorian
Railways to introduce double-deck car-
riages. All of its network except Flinders
Street has the required clearance for
the extra height. The Melbourne system
could then follow the Sydney one in
using large-capacity, double-deck trains
on strained routes.
Reconstruction of the station would
also allow improved transit to trams to
be designed into the station. At present
Melbourne’s proposed underground...
“it makes much less sense”
tile thousands of office workers trans-
ferring from train to tram have to walk
down ramps, up flights of steps, and
across roads heavily laden with road
traffic before they can get to trams.
Critics of the proposal for an early
start on the Melbourne Underground
also say that Flinders Street is not the
only bottleneck to an expansion of the
system. The heavily trafficked southern
and eastern lines just don’t have the
capacity to run more trains. This is
because over most of their length they
are only two tracks (unlike Sydney’s,
which are quadrupled) and they cannot
run expresses. At snail’s pace, extra
tracking is being installed, but many
millions of dollars need to be spent
before the system will be capable of
really testing the Flinders Street bottle-
neck.
In the final analysis, the future of
these railway projects will be decided
by the future of the central business
districts which they serve. The Mel-
bourne central business district is static


52
ISSUES OF
THE BULLETIN
FOR THE
PRICE OF
42
Under a special concession offer still current you
can now buy The Bulletin for 20c a copy instead
of 25c. With this special offer Australian readers
can take out a 12-month subscription to The
Bulletin for $10.40. This represents a saving of
$2.60 on a year's issues. This offer is available
to Australian readers only. The best way not to
miss out on Australia is through a Bulletin sub-
scription.
MAIL THIS COUPON NOW
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me the next 52 issues of the Bulletin. I enclose a cheque for $10.40.
NAME :
(BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
(BLOCK LETTERS)
0 Renewal 0 New subscription. Tick as appropriate.
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTION DEPT., BOX 4088, G.P.0., SYDNEY 2001.
at around 150,000 workplaces, Sydney’s
grows very slowly from about 220,000.
Retailing is diminishing out of central
areas into the suburbs, where the wife
can park and load her car. Warehousing
and manufacturing is going right out to
the very outskirts, where land is cheap
and plentiful and where the workers
are shifting. The central 'business dis-
tricts are being maintained only by the
growth of office work and entertain-
ment. Maybe that will be enough to sus-
tain them. Maybe it will enable them
to grow.
It is true that trends in economic
development suggest that the proportion
of the workforce in tertiary services of
this kind will grow very rapidly. And
with it will grow the demand for office
space within which they can do their
business. Much of that extra demand is
likely to be in the central business
districts. To an extent these trends can
be influenced and controlled: by zoning
policies, rates, and the provision of
facilities of different kinds. But power-
ful market forces like the tremendous
convenience of modern regional shop-
ping centres, many of them based on
the flexibility of the motor-car make
it doubtful whether they can be over-
come.
My guess would be that the Eastern
Suburbs railway in Sydney will be a
really good social investment (maybe
yielding over 10 percent) if the area is
maintained and developed as a high-
density dormitory for people who work
in the central business district. That
being so, there is a strong case for speed-
ing its construction. The Common-
wealth has every reason to provide
money. Melbourne’s underground loop-
line proposal makes much less sense, and
if assistance is to be given to its rail
transport system there are many more
productive ways of spending the money.
We should remember that urban con-
gestion will not be very greatly allevi-
ated by improvement of the rail system.
Shops, factories, hospitals, entertain-
ment, universities, indeed most work-
places except offices, are rapidly dis-
persing throughout our urban areas.
Housing densities are declining, and a
centrally oriented railway network
simply does not make sense. The really
big-yielding social investments are
almost certainly to be had in freeway
networks. Small stretches of freeway
such as Sydney’s new Warringah
Expressway often create almost as many
problems as they solve. They often
merely shift bottlenecks along a bit.
But big networks make plenty of sense.
If the Commonwealth can speed these,
then it will really be contributing to
national productivity.
The Commonwealth should not
automatically support underground rail-
ways as such. It should support them
only when they are the best alternative.
Perhaps it should establish a Metropoli-
tan Transport Development Fund to
provide a framework within which it
could inject money into socially profit-
able schemes —whether road or rail,
underground or aerial.


SPERRY RAI\D
m
:
m
<
S-
NS
s>
A 0
$ AV
*/
Mi m
v a
•w
Mr
X'
Now, that’s what I call
planning
link-system planning.
Link-System Planning is Reming-
ton's vital new concept for in-
creasing work-flow and efficiency
to cope with today's business
demands and quickening tempo.
Whatever type or size your busi-
ness may be, our experts can
after a fact-finding survey plan
a Link-System that will bring you
a dramatic upthrust in overall
efficiency and greater profitability.
Take your accounts department
for example, it could start with that
basic adding machine. To this is
linked the function of a Remington
Ac co untamatic-Accounting
machine, linked perhaps to the
function of a Remington Offset
printer linked again to the function
of a Remington Folder-Inserter
or mailer. Result: total efficiency
and ease of work-flow.
You are in now the unique—and
highly advantageous position of
not only doing all your adding and
accounting and invoicing, but also
printing the actual forms, then
folding and inserting them in their
relevant envelopes. All automatic-
ally because of your Link-System.
Get the idea? And whatever
Link-System you may need, we
also guarantee, without cost to
you, to train your staff to operate it.
Your enquiry will be given our
experts' complete concentration.
And security. Obligation-free.
4 vf, a p» : r^* i saia
11/^AWPBI
REMINGTON
ADDO-8000 ACCOUNTING MACHINE
Combination book-keeping, accounting,
calculator.
REMINGTON
ROTAPRINT 30/90
High quality precision
offset printing machine.
"W"
REMINGTON
ADORESSER/PRINTER MODEL 706
Plates embossed with names, addresses,
etc. prints 1,000 impressions an hour.
JL link-system planning by
"REMINGTON RAI\D
Remington-Rand World's Largest Link-System Planners
Sydney 2-0925 • Melbourne 69-0660 • Brisbane 5-4651 • Adelaide 8-4631 • Launceston 2-2358 • Hobart 2-2886 • Canberra 4-0885 • Perth 23-2281


Gunning for the gun law
AS USUAL it is hard to tell whether
the current crop of reports of lurid
shooting incidents in America reflects
a boom in shooting or the fact that,
just at present, shooting affairs are
still news. Because of the murders of
Dr. Martin Luther King and Senator
Robert Kennedy America’s sackcloth is
still on, and so is the demand that
something be reformed; foremost
among the targets of reform was the
inadequacy of Federal law to control
the purchase and possession of firearms.
Since the first assassination, and even
more nervously since the second, the
public has been watching out for
violent crime and the reformers have
been using it to illustrate the urgency
of their cause.
There is plenty to watch. The actual
type of dotty outbreak exemplified by
the young man who shot 43 people two
years ago from the university tower in
Austin, Texas, appears to be really
fairly common —only more often than
not, because of luck or faulty marks-
manship or a policeman’s presence of
mind, it fails to bring in enough of a
bag to be really big news. The fellow
who fired 15 shots from a second-floor
window in a Maryland suburb of Wash-
ington two weeks ago hit nobody at
all (he had quarrelled with his wife
and the gun lay handy). In New York
City five days earlier a man barged
into a women’s lavatory in Central
Park to shoot dead a pretty young girl
with whom he was unacquainted and
then settled down on the roof to fight
it out with the police, two of whom
he wounded before he was filled with
lead himself. More or less by the way,
he picked off an old man sitting near-
by with two shots in the back. Another
incident followed at Baltimore: having
emptied the till in a sandwich shop at
gunpoint and met no resistance, the
robber made all four people present lie
down in a row on the floor, face down-
ward; next, instead of leaving with the
money, he shot each one in turn; then
he went back to the beginning and shot
them all again.
Robbers in America carry firearms
almost as often as not. Presumably in
consequence (though it is obvious that
the two phenomena feed each other),
small businessmen whose liquor stores
or petrol stations are vulnerable to
robbery tend to keep a firearm handy
and the police (when they get to the
scene in time) are likely to be quick
on the draw themselves. Robberies
(involving force or threat of force) are
in fact (to the extent that the statistics
published by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation may be treated as fact)
much less numerous, even in America,
than crimes of stealth against property
—larcenies and burglaries. But the
robbery curve is the most dynamic of
the three and showed in the first
quarter of this year an increase of
24 percent over the corresponding
quarter of 1967—a bigger increase than
in any other class of crime. Of the
three classes of offence against pro-
perty, robbery is also the one that most
strikes the public imagination, precisely
because it is the most likely to involve
injury or indignity to the person.
Obviously the fact that 58 percent of
robberies are committed by armed men
increases the likelihood that a robbery
will end in a homicide, on one side or
the other.
President Johnson, when he appointed
his commission to investigate violence
after the Kennedy assassination in June,
put to it the question “can our society
any longer tolerate the widespread
This Americanised version of a darts board was on sale in Los Angeles
at the time of Senator Robert Kennedy’s assassination, and advertised
as a “new game in the great American tradition of self-expression”
possession of deadly firearms by private
citizens?” He pointed out that two
million firearms were sold in the United
States last year. There are plenty of
signs that the rising fear of violence
has widened the public revulsion against
gun ownership in the abstract, but this
is not the same as persuading
people willingly to give up their guns.
In America at least, fear of violence
has the contrary effect. People think
of themselves as law-abiding citizens
entitled to be protected and to protect
themselves; their excellent chance, once
they have a gun in the house, of eventu-
ally appearing in the homicide statistics
themselves (if only by accident, or
through an uncharacteristic impulse
in a moment of depression) means little
to them.
As the gun lobbies assiduously point
out, it is the law’-abiding man who
would register his gun were Federal
registration in force; the criminal would
not.
The chances of this Congress passing
an effective gun law lessen as the time
left to it runs out. The Party leaders
will probably agree to close the session
before the Republican Party's national
convention opens in the second week of
August. President Johnson is threaten-
ing to recall Congress after the con-
ventions, but this would be unusual in
a Presidential election year; the last
time such a session was called, in 1960,
it proved to be sterile.
The consequent need for haste on
the part of proponents of gun control
plays into the hands of those who
oppose it. They have been able to
invoke every tactic of parliamentary
delay so that only one—the weakest—of
the three gun law measures under de-
cussion has yet even reached the floor
of either House. Moreover, in explain-
ing their opposition to any one law,
they have been able to cite the presence
of the other two without saying that
w support them,
The confusion has arisen mostly be-
cause the Administration was slow to
recognise the strength of feeling in
favor of gun control following the
death of Robert Kennedy. President
Johnson himself has long urged the
licensing and registering of gun owners
and the Department of Justice has been


Clarification
■*«*■&*
Z %
*'
the leading range
of equipment
comes from ...
(westfalia)
represented in
Australia by . . .
o
SYDNEY
432311
ADELAIDE
76 5686
MELBOURNE
33 0286
PERTH I
8 8355
BRISBANE
682461
LAUNCESTON
26 1555
tinkering with possible legislation ever
since Governor Hughes, of New Jersey,
visited the President last year and
demonstrated how well new State laws
requiring the registration of guns were
working there.
But the President’s informants in
Congress advised him immediately after
Senator Kennedy’s death that he could
not hope to get more than passage of
the Safe Streets Bill, then before the
House of Representatives; this included
some limitation on mail-order and
across-the-counter sales of pistols and
revolvers. That Bill duly passed. But
as the public outcry increased
early this month, and particularly as a
number of Congressmen known for
their perennial opposition to stronger
gun laws began to change their posi-
tions in response to pressure from con-
stituents, this cautious advice began to
look wrong.
The President, therefore, first asked
Congress to extend the restrictions on
sales of firearms to include rifles and
shotguns as well. Then Senator Joseph
Tydings introduced a Bill which would
require States to introduce licensing and
registration of all guns. Mr. Tydings
also put pressure on the President to
support his Bill, but instead drew from
the Justice Department its own much
stronger licensing and registration Bill,
with all the stringent requirements of
fingerprinting and photographing gun
owners which tend to lend credence to
the gun lobby’s argument that gun
registration is the beginning of the end
of every American’s right to bear arms.
The Administration’s Bill also differs
from Mr. Tydings’ Bill in that it would
make the licensing and registration of
guns the responsibility of the Federal
Government, not the States.
Had the Administration’s proposals,
revolutionary though they are by
American standards, been made before
the less-demanding ones put forward
by Senator Tydings, and while the call
for strict legislation was still growing,
they would have stood a better chance
of passing now. But, in fact, the Presi-
dent’s message calling for licensing and
registration of guns was sent to Congress
just as the well-organised opposition to
stricter gun control had rallied its
forces and started to make itself felt
again. Faced by the rigors of the Presi-
dent’s requests, attitudes in Congress
began to harden once more against any
licensing or registration.
Thus on Wednesday, July 10, the
Senate Judiciary Committee first gutted
Mr. Tydings’ Bill by voting to remove
rifles and shotguns from its provisions
for registration and then saw Senator
Strom Thurmond filibuster against the
Bill so that no vote could be taken by
the committee to bring it on to the
floor of the Senate. Senator Tydings
promptly said that he would tack his
proposals on to another Bill before
the Senate, but it is likely that such
a tactic would be defeated when any
such altered Bill returned to the House
of Representatives. Indeed, only two
days before, on Monday, declared
supporters of gun registration in the
House had to promise to oppose it as
the price of persuading the House Rules
Committee on Tuesday to release the
Administration’s Bill on sales of shot-
guns and rifles for debate on the floor
of the House.
“One can hardly feel sanguine,”
observed Professor Etzioni, a sociologist
at Columbia University, in the “Wall
Street Journal” a fortnight ago, about
the quality of work to be expected on
the President’s Commission on the
Causes and Prevention of Violence.
“Government by fire-brigade” is the
professor’s word for this kind of expedi-
ent. His main point is that the few
months allowed to the commission to
produce its report leave really no possi-
bility of seriously investigating any-
thing or of extending the frontiers of
sociological knowledge. Research will
be ordered on contract from univer-
sities, no doubt, and every effort will be
made to read the product within the
time allowed before the report reaches
its final draft.
Thus the exact correlation (no, even
the rough correlation) between the
availability of firearms and the rise of
violent crime remains the subject of
impressions and commonsense assump-
tions, not of knowledge.
An equally undocumented subject is
the part played by the mass media in
stimulating violent impulses in, parti-
cularly, the young. Brandeis Uni-
versity has a centre for the study of
violence which is, naturally, much in
demand as the American political
establishment strives tardily to chart the
disturbing currents of the age. Its
head, Dr. John Spiegel, is among the
consultants to the President’s com-
mission. As he observes, the folklore,
the myth, the poetry, and the history
that have been fed to children through
all the earlier ages have always been
rich in violence. What has changed is
not the fare but the vehicle: children
who once could treat the horrors of
“Grimm’s Fairy Tales,” read in the
nursery, as fantasy can hardly be ex-
pected now to keep the same distance
from violence on the television screen—
whether the television violence is fan-
tasy, too, or accurate reporting of the
war in Vietnam.
The television networks in their
exposed position have shown them-
selves sensitive. The Board of the
National Association of Broadcasters
held prolonged meetings in Washington
last month, defended itself, and pro-
mised “intensified surveillance” of, par-
ticularly, dramatic programs. But the
networks and the broadcasters, like the
President’s commission, the President
himself, the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation, the Senate, and the House of
Representatives, are whistling in the
dark. The assumptions appropriate to
practical men may be plain enough,
but the knowledge remains veiled.


FORUM
Greece-and the Colonels
By H. B. GULLETT
Mr. Gullett, now home after serving in
Athens as Australian Ambassador, con-
tributes his own impressions of the political
realities of Greece.
TO THE dispassionate observer of
events in Greece, the reaction of the
world to the Greek Revolution of April
21 has been scarcely less fascinating and
much less capable of logical explana-
tion than the events themselves. For
any consideration of the basic facts of
the political situation in Greece must
reveal that in the two years before the
Revolution, Greece was incontestably
drifting into bankruptcy and anarchy.
Constitutional government under
King and Parliament was ineffective,
corrupt, and totally discredited in the
eyes of the Greek people. Greece, in
short, was headed for a renewal of the
civil strife which was put down at the
cost of so much blood and treasure, not
only Greek, but British and American,
in 1949. Furthermore, today, almost
uniquely among European powers,
Greece remains quiet and stable. Apart
from these considerations, surely the
world is by now inured to the sort of
behaviour with which the Greek Gov-
ernment is daily charged. How many
democracies have been swept aside by
dictatorships and “guided democracies”
in the past 20 years? And where is the
righteous indignation in these cases?
Even admitting the truth, which I
don’t, of the more serious charges
against the Junta, can anyone pretend
that there is not official murder, illegal
imprisonment, beating, and torture in
Hungary, Indonesia, Ethiopia, China,
and almost the whole of Africa? To us,
living in Greece during the past few
years, close to local events, yet listen-
ing to foreign broadcasting stations and
reading the foreign Press (which one
buys freely everywhere), the question
often arose, does world opinion
expressed by the UN and these media
reflect a political conscience or merely
a selective one? Or is it, after all,
simply ill-informed, biased, and naive?
I am still not too sure of the answers.
The first thing to realise is that
Greece has never in modern times been
a working democracy in the sense we
in the Western world understand the
term.
Secondly, her periods of greatest
progress, strength, and relative pros-
perity have been in the times when the
country enjoyed a strong central govern-
ment. And these periods were almost
usually coincidental with the rule of the
dictators, the greatest being Venizelos,
Metaxas, and Karamanlis.
People write and speak today of
Greece “before the Revolution of last
year” as if she were a Western-type
democracy before the Colonels took
over. Nothing could be further from
the truth.
The fact is that almost every aspect
of Greek life was controlled by what I
might term the establishment. The
establishment, in the main, consisted
of rich, intelligent, well-educated, and,
often, gifted families. By one means
and another they controlled not only
the Parliament but, to a great extent,
such industry and comrnerce as Greece
possessed. They took large profits from
the land, from shipping, and from the
tourist trade (through their ownership
of the big hotels). They controlled the
banks and possessed an enormous pro-
portion of the real estate houses,
shops, business premises, and apartment
houses.
When I arrived in 1965, the most
disgraceful scenes, frequently cul-
minating in physical violence, had re-
duced the Parliament to a travesty of
a legislative chamber. In the House
itself, corruption and nepotism were
widespread. The Civil Service, neg-
lected and underpaid, had lost con-
fidence in its rulers. As for the people,
their disillusion with politicians and
constitutional democracy was absolute.
And why not?
Two-thirds of the people of Greece
are peasants. To the tourists visiting
Greece in the summer months, their
life may appear pleasant, even pictur-
esque. But the great majority are under-
employed they do not have enough
even to satisfy their physical hunger.
They are wretchedly housed. Nearly
half the people of Greece do not have
a kitchen, let alone a bathroom or run-
ning water in their houses. Social ser-
vices, as we understand them, barely
exist. The lot of the incapacitated or
the mentally afflicted is indeed ter-
rible. More than this, the Government,
as from 1963, had shown itself in-
creasingly incapable of maintaining
basic law and order, without which
even these meagre standards could not
be sustained.
During 1965-66 there was an almost
continuous series of strikes. Public trans-
port was frequently disrupted, mails
were not delivered, there were tele-
phone strikes, cargoes rotted on the
wharves, ships were held up in the
ports. The cost of living was rising
alarmingly. In addition, the middle of
the summer of 1965 was marked by
daily demonstrations of a violent and
threatening nature. The tourist trade
suffered accordingly, unemployment
rose, and there was a feeling of pro-
found unease throughout the country.
Any consideration of the political
situation in Greece would be incom-
plete unless the Communist revolution
of 1945-49 is taken into account.
Throughout its long and frequently
terrible history it is probably true to
say that no single occurrence so influ-
ences the minds of modern Greeks as
the Civil War. For not only were more
than 50,000 people killed, much of
Athens reduced to ruins, and large areas
of the countryside depopulated or
terrorised, but the sheer brutality and
horror of the revolution, or Civil War,
has left on those who lived through it a
mark which they will never forget.
When they took power, the Colonels
claimed that they did so in order to
thwart a well-organised Communist
conspiracy aimed at taking over the
country. No doubt, in broad terms,
this was the Communist Party’s inten-
tion —though whether, in fact, there
was a highly organised and detailed
conspiracy is open to doubt. However
that may be, it is certain that at that
time the Communist Party was growing
in strength.
It is against this background—the
breakdown of orderly government,
inflation, unrest, and the fear of Com-
munism—that the actions of the
Colonels and the reaction of the Greek
public must be considered.
Though they have made many mis-
takes—notably in removing too many
capable men because of their political
opinions—the present Government has
already effected certain solid improve-
ments. Despite prognostications to the
contrary, the drachma remains strong,
inflation is checked, pensions have been
increased, the marketing of primary
produce has been better organised with
benefit to the farmer, wages have been
raised on the waterfront and elsewhere,
strikes are a thing of the past, and the
public utilities work efficiently and to
schedule. There is less graft in Gov-
ernment departments. Decisions are
taken in a reasonable time, and they are
■implemented. From a wide section of
the banking and business community
I have heard that Greece is a much
better place to do business in today
than it has been for some years. Per-
haps this is why there is an increasing
amount of foreign investment. Every-
body now has to pay his taxes instead
of only the wage-earner as formerly,
and, generally speaking, there is a
greater air of efficiency throughout the
country.
Some critics, notably artists, philoso-
phers, and writers, have literally no
understanding of the realities of Greek
politics and its requirements. Instead,
they are influenced by a sort of nos-
talgia, induced either by the pleasant
life which they knew in Greece of
other days, or by an idealistic concept
which they have imbibed with their
classical education and background.
This is not to impugn the sincerity or
honesty of purpose of those who have
so violently attacked the regime,
but sincerity does not make them right.
One thinks immediately of the num-


The pleasure machine
mi
straight
OUT
PUU
STRAIGHT
OUT
PUU
STRAIGHT
GUT
STRAIN
The Polaroid Camera gives you a finish-
ed colour print 60 seconds after you snap
it. (A finished black-and-white in 15 sec-
onds.)
You don’t have to be a genius to realise
how much fun an instant camera like
this can add to weekend picture-taking.
But what about the rest of the week?
Photographs are becoming more useful
to practically every business and profes-
sion. And a Polaroid Land camera speeds
the job of photomaking (just as a cal-
culating machine speeds the job of arith-
metic).
Supposing you’re selling something' big
(like a house, or a factory site, or a heavy
machine). You can snap it and, seconds
later, be on your way to see a prospective


that becomes a business machine.
:
m
■MM!
*■
7 s *
X /\ycm
Jl,
"* /
m^jess*
«*«*
* ym/ *r
» r*
5
» *• W
ir / y, V »
sr
1 • .
LA R 0
W
P 0
Mi
d 111- mm i®
buyer with the picture in your pocket.
A lawyer or insurance man can make
on-the-spot photographs to document a
case.
And a salesman can mail pictures to his
home office (the same day he takes them)
to show how the in-store displays are
displayed in the stores.
If you’d like complete information on
what the Polaroid Camera can do for
your business (and your weekends), write
to: Polaroid Australia Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box
335, Broadway, N.S.W., 2007.
Polaroid Instant Cameras
"Polaroid" is the registered trademark of Polaroid Corporation, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.


ber of writers, and others, who have
lived in Greece and have since casti-
gated the present regime. The harsh
truth appears to me to be that most
of these people have a totally false
idea of what Greece was really like
for the Greeks. They lived in small and,
by modern standards, impoverished
communities mainly in the Greek
Islands. Their life was very pleasant,
the scenery was magnificent, the sea
was blue, ouzo was threepence a glass,
bread about sixpence a loaf, and other
necessities in proportion. Sitting in the
sun or listening to bouzouki music was
absolutely for free. To be sure, most of
them lived in conditions which would
horrify the modern university student,
but they put up with it and were
happy. Not the least attraction for
many among these foreign communities
was that they were able to behave
exactly as they liked. But it should not
be supposed that they behaved as the
Greeks liked. For example, the Greeks
are temporate people, despising ex-
cessive drinking. They did not appreci-
ate off-beat and, frequently, dirty
sf othes. They were offended by the
beards and long hair of the foreigner
because in Greece only the priesthood
are traditionally privileged to grow
beards and wear long hair. They did
not relish their frequently uninhibited
and, to Greek eyes, unseemly behaviour.
Much less did they care for overt homo-
sexuality, and the fact that a proportion
of these people were regularly arrested
on charges of taking drugs and smug-
gling them into Greece.
A further category of critics, epito-
mised perhaps by noble speakers in the
House of Lords, and by classical
scholars around the world, attack the
Government because they say a dicta-
torship is totally unacceptable in the
land which they consider the birthplace
and chief protagonist of democracy.
I am not here going to argue as to
whether democracy was ever practised
in Greece or not. But if we say that
ancient Athens or Sparta were demo-
cracies, then we must admit that South
Africa and Rhodesia are democracies,
too. That is to say, they are democratic
from the point of view of a particular
class of the community even though
there are no, or very few, democratic
rights for the underprivileged, who, in
ancient Greece, consisted of slaves.
But, leaving Pericles aside, sure it is
that not for 2000 years has Greece
been an effective democracy.
Greece is not a museum. Neither is
it a refuge for the person who wants
.to get away from the modern world.
The Greek people, like others, have
desperate needs and ambitions. They
have a glorious history, though in their
hearts they are painfully aware of their
insignificance in the modern world.
They are, in reality, desperately
anxious that Greece should take its
place as a modern country with ade-
quate welfare and improving standards
of living for its citizens. The tourist
trade is of .great importance to them,
and yet, let’s face it, there is something
not only patronising but faintly humil-
The Junta leaders (l. to r.): Premier George Papadopoulos, Deputy-Premier Sylianos
Pattakos, and Co-ordination Minister Nicholas Makarezos
iating in relying upon wealthy and, to
their eyes, frequently vulgar, amoral,
not to say ugly, tourists who pry into
the most private aspects of their lives,
regard their backward customs as
“quaint,” overcrowd their beaches,
cafes, squares, and other public places,
and ignore their taboos.
Basically, the Greeks want industry,
development, and social progress, not
aid, foreign administration, tourism, and
patronage.
Whatever may be the faults of the
Colonels, and they are .many, this they
realise—and for a very good reason:
In the past 100 years Greece has had
many revolutions and many military
dictatorships, but in the main those who
led the revolutions were very much of
the establishment. Indeed, the system
of dowry on marriage almost guaran-
tees the perpetuation of the establish-
ment, because, regardless of his back-
ground, it has always been possible for
a young man without background to
rise to a position of wealth and influ-
ence in Greece, and young men of
promise have always attracted a wife
with a large dowry. Thus it happens
that the ruling classes in Greece con-
tinually enlist into their ranks new men
of vigor and vitality. So, in previous
revolutions, the older order, after an
initial shake-up, invariably found itself
once more in the saddle. The present
Revolution was different because so
many of its people are men of peasant,
or lower-middle class, origin. They
are men of strong religious principles,
or, at least, men strong in their reli-
gious observances. They know, instinc-
tively, what the peasant, the soldier,
and the worker want. And I am satis-
fied it is their aim to give them what
they want as soon as they can.
One hears nothing, or next to noth-
ing, of the fate of political prisoners in
Poland, Bulgaria, Albania, or Rumania,
but there is an ever-present howl
against an authoritarian government in
Greece. Why?
No one suggests that the Government
in Greece is more brutally repressive
or more absolute than the government,
let us say, of Sukarno, Suharto, Nas-
ser, Bulgaria, or Poland. Indeed, there
is a great deal of evidence to show that
the Greek Government uses a minimum
of force and brutality. Certainly there
are no troops in the street, no tanks,
and, except on great occasions and
public holidays, only a minimum of
police to be seen going about their
duties.
The basic difference between what
happens, let us say, in Poland and what
happens in Greece is that one is a
government of the Left and the other
is a government of the Right.
How long is the present Government
of Greece likely to last?
The only possibility for an
unscheduled change of government is
that the Cabinet itself might split on
matters of policy. I think this possibility
remote. For these men know well
enough, to use the old saying, that they
will stand together or that they will
hang togcher. They are realists. Each
man’s head is on the block, and well
they know it. The most dangerous
possibility, to my mind, is that Papa-
dopoulos, the Prime Minister, could be
assassinated.
In the last year, I was able to meet
and observe members of the Govern-
ment fairly frequently. I share the
opinion generally held artiong the dip-
lomatic corps, and other competent
observers, that Prime Minister Papa-
dopoulos is the most liberal-minded of
all the leading figures in Greece today.
He makes no secret of the fact that he
would like to see the King return,
though with powers considerably cur-
tailed. He has repeatedly stated that
he looks upon the present form of
government as temporary, and that an
early return to democracy should be
its principal aim.
Mr. Papadopoulos, on public occa-
sions, has a somewhat sinister appear-
ance. Like most of the Junta, he is a
small man, well covered without being
fat, and his receding hair gives the
impression of a disproportionately large
head. He has a very firm military cast
of face and a direct, somewhat menac-
ing stare. On closer acquaintance,
Papadopoulos reveals himself as a man
of considerable intelligence and charm.
He speaks easily and well—either in
conversation or on the public platform
—smiles readily, and has a good sense
of humor. He is a very satisfactory
man to interview because he does not
try to hide his intentions but comes
straight to the point and says what he
means.
In our limited contacts, I got on
extremely well with him. He told me
frankly that he did not like diplomats
but that I could see him at any time
because, he added, “you do not waste
my time. and, besides, you are a
soldier.”
All in all, this professional soldier
seems to be learning the arts of govern-


Il
* i- 1
ARO 1 D
P 0 U
'see
the
POLAROID
PLEASURE
BUSINESS
CAMERA
at
FOTO RIESEL,
PHONE
29 8678
for a demonstration
or write t 0...
FOTO RIESEL
26 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. 2000
Specialising in
Polaroid Cameras
for
industry and pleasure
ment very quickly. He has, of course,
made mistakes, but he makes fewer
now. It cannot be said, however, that
this relative liberality of Mr. Papado-
poulos and, one assumes, his brothers,
who are also in important posts, is
shared either by all his Cabinet or by
the Military Council. The position of
the Military Council vis-a-vis the Gov-
ernment in Greece would be roughly
the same as the relationship between
the Labor Party as a whole and the
Parliamentary Labor Party when there
is a Labor Government.
In other words, the Prime Minister
and Cabinet enjoy considerable latitude
in making day-to-day decisions but in
the long run they will be expected to
toe the Party line. Up to this point it
appears that Jdx. Papadopoulos’ prestige
and influence over the Army Council
have Been, if not absolute, at least de-
cisive and they have been prepared to
go along with him.
Should, however, there be a split, or
in the unfortunate event of Mr. Papado-
poulos being assassinated, there can be
little doubt that the Government would
move substantially toward the Right,
and we would see the establishment of
a strong and permanent military dic-
tatorship on the Franco pattern.
Exactly how Mr. Papadopoulos pro-
poses to implement his “early return to
democracy in Greece” he has not
defined, but one can make some fairly
intelligent assumptions. The Draft
Constitution has already been published.
There will, of course, be months of
public and official discussion before a
Constitution is agreed upon. At an
unspecified date thereafter there will
be a plebiscite, elections will be held, a
Parliament returned, and Greece will
have at least the semblance of demo-
cracy.
I think it is totally unrealistic to
expect an absolutely freely elected
Parliament exercising virtually
unlimited powers. One imagines that
only certain Parties, and certainly not
the Communist Party, will be allowed
to put up candidates. I should think
it likely, too, that the candidates will
be personally selected or approved. And
such a Parliament, when elected, will
probably have only a limited role. The
real executive power will continue to
reside with the Junta. One envisages,
at the outset at least, the Parliament
exercising a role similar to that of the
Advisory Council of Canberra.
One frequently hears allegations of
torture in Greece, and recently the
British Prime Minister, Mr. Wilson,
referred to the “beastliness” of the
regime, a remark which has cost
Britain many millions of export earn-
ings and which will cost still more in
the future.
It might be useful to consider what
is meant by torture. It is a fact that
in Greece the proportion of arrests and
convictions to the total number of
crimes committed is exceedingly high,
much higher than in Australia, for
example. This is because when a crime
is committed the Greek police round
up the suspects and proceed to beat
the truth out of them. Sooner or later,
someone talks, usually sooner.
We may not like this. But it works.
And in a population prone to violence,
some such system is probably necessary.
At any event, this tradition of police
violence has always been condoned in
Greece by the great majority of the
population. A beating-up is not con-
sidered torture.
There is no doubt in my mind that
numbers of political prisoners, par-
ticularly Communists, who, after all,
are regarded as traitors, have been sub-
ject to pretty rough treatment. But no
convincing evidence has been produced
in support of the allegations that politi-
cal prisoners have been tortured.
Recently a four-man delegation
visited Greece from the British Par-
liament. It was comprised of a Con-
servative, a Liberal, and two Labor
members. They were given very con-
siderable freedom to move about
Greece, visit the islands and prisons
where political prisoners are held. I
did not meet these men, but I had a
long talk with their interpreter, and I
read their report, in which they said,
quite categorically, that they found no
evidence of the torture of political
prisoners, and did not believe that this
had ever been practised.
Clearly, I cannot vouch for the truth
of their findings and, in fact, I will be
surprised if there have not been, at least
isolated, incidents of brutality. Such
incidents, after all, even occur here.
All I stress is that one must take some
note of the findings of an independent
and, indeed, rather hostile delegation
of this standing.
One thing which Greece’s critics
have done I find quite unforgivable.
Recently, the London “Sunday Times”
published an article which gave the im-
pression tourists were no longer safe in
Greece. Other sections of the Press
have called on tourists to boycott
Greece as a tourist centre on political
grounds, or because of the likelihood of
violent demonstrations in which they
could become involved.
Unfortunately, this sort of publicity
has been all too successful. And who
has suffered? Certainly not the Colonels,
because by one means or another the
economy of Greece remains stable. But
tremendous hardship and suffering have
been brought to many thousands of poor
Greeks who look to employment as
waiters, fishermen, barmen, guides, and
the rest during summer to earn enough
to tide them over the winter.
If it is the intention of those who
write and publish this sort of thing to
cause suffering in Greece, then they are
doing an excellent job. I hope they
don’t think anyone will thank them for
it. On the contrary, these simple people
are quite at a loss to understand why
their country has been boycotted by
those who call themselves their friends.
And, if anything, the result has been to
draw the Greek people together behind
their Government to face an unsym-
pathetic and hostile world.


BUSINESS
AND THE ECONOMY
A final hope for
the motor industry
A further
boost for
Japanese
efficiency
THE SERIOUS PLIGHT of the Gov-
ernment’s attempts to Australianise
motor-vehicles is indicated in the
latest figures on sales by makes. Toyota,
which only assemble here, is now neck
and neck with Chrysler for third place.
Datsun and Mazda are getting their
volume up toward BMC and VW.
Despite high tariffs, and strenuous
efforts to enforce local production, the
assemblers and importers are getting
an increased share of the market. It
is not only the Japanese who are doing
well. Fiat and Renault are doing better.
And the British look as if they could
pick up some gains with the Triumph
and the Rover.
Imports are now up to taking about
a fifth of the market.
If the Australian industry is suffer-
ing through this proliferation of sales
then it will really be in trouble when
sales come down from their present
olympian heights. The latest June
figure suggests an annual rate of sales
of just on 504,000, a level which can-
not possibly be sustained.
There is only one thing which may
save the Government. That is a major
upheaval in the Japanese motor in-
dustry, leading to a crisis in buyer
confidence in Japanese cars. The Min-
istry for International Trade and In-
dustry is reportedly trying to engineer
a series of mergers of Japanese car
firms in order to improve still further
the efficiency of the industry. In the
short. term, this could mean the elim-
ination of some makes of Japanese cars,
and there could be some disillusionment
among buyers.
IMMIGRATION
LOST POTENTIAL
IMMIGRATION IS likely to fall short
of the Government’s target of 148,000
again this year. Canberra officials think
it is likely to be 135,000. This makes it
almost certain that the Budget in
August will provide an increased grant
for immigration promotion. The num-
ber of migrants returning grows year
by year. This year it is likely to be
around 24,000, compared to 10,400
last year and 16,300 the year before.
This means that our overall popula-
tion gain is falling off since the
immigration target is framed simply in
terms of settler arrivals. There are
suggestions that the target may be
increased to try to offset the losses
through migrants returning.
The Department meanwhile is as
optimistic as usual about the future.
Following devaluation there has been a
vast increase in migrant applications
in English offices of the Department.
For the quarter ending in June, 47,300
people applied, compared to 34,500 last
year. Non-British immigration, how-
ever, remains slack.
At last the Commonwealth appears
to be making some moves to overcome
one of the obstacles to Australia getting
non-British migrants. Labor Minister
Bury last week announced that a tri-
partite mission (Government, employer,
and trade union) was going to Europe
to study training methods, especially
in engineering and electrical trades.
The Minister said that the present
criteria which, in accordance with the
Tradesmen’s Rights Regulation Act, are
used to facilitate the formal recognition
in Australia of the trade skills of mig-
rants in the engineering and electrical
trades are based on the report of a
mission which visited Europe in 1952.
The time had come when the criteria
should be reviewed in the light of cur-
rent training practices in Europe.
Moreover, Australia is now seeking
skilled workers in a number of Euro-
pean countries that were not covered
by the earlier mission. Concern had
been expressed that, for these reasons,
Australia could be losing potential
migrant tradesmen needed by Aus-
tralian industry.
Mr. Bury said that following its
investigation the mission would submit
to him a comprehensive report that
should prove of considerable value to
his own Department, the Department of
Immigration, and the various technical
training authorities, employer organi-
sations, and trade unions. It would
provide, also, the basis for the review
of the criteria for the selection overseas,
and the recognition in Australia, of
migrant tradesmen in the trades covered
by the Act.
But a more important reason why
Continental Europeans are no longer
so keen to come here was hinted at in
OECD statistics issued last week. They
include a table showing gross national
product per capita, and Australia has
evidently been surpassed in this measure
of living standards by a remarkable
number of European countries. The
table lists countries in this order: U.S.
$4OlO, Sweden $2BOO, Canada $2BOO,
Switzerland $2580, Denmark $2500,
France $2lBO, Norway $2170, Australia
$2060, Belgium $2OOO, U.K. $l9BO,
Holland $l7BO, Austria $1450, Italy
$1270, Japan $ll2O, and Portugal $430.
WHEAT
GIVE AND TAKE
A COMPROMISE arrangement on
wheat prices is understood to have ibeen
almost finalised. The Commonwealth
Government, which provides the sub-
sidy -money, proposed that the home
consumption price be raised from $1.64
to $1.70 so that consumers took up
more of the burden of subsidising ex-
ports. State Ministers at the Australian
Agricultural Council meeting in Bris-
bane recently opposed this, saying it
would inevitably lead to rises in the
price of bread and in cost-of-living
indexes. The Commonwealth now
seems prepared to leave -the home price
where it is. The extra 6c a bushel
would only net some $3 million for
Government revenue, which is almost
insignificant set against the amounts
being paid out on exports.
The Bureau of Agricultural Econom-
ics found that using its traditional sur-
vey methods the “cost of production”
of wheat had increased to just over
$2.00 compared to the $1.65 last year.
The rise is largely due to increases in
land values.
The Commonwealth Government,
which believes the old cost-of-produc-
tion index is now meaningless, wanted
to abandon it. But in its negotiations
with the Wheatgrowers’ Federation it
has agreed -to retain it during the next
stabilisation period in return for an
interpretation which reduces the sup-
port price. A new yield factor of 20.25
bushels per acre is being adopted as
the divisor, compared to the figure of
17 being applied at present. This brings
the so-called cost of production down
to about $1.70. This is still much more
than the Commonwealth wants to pay,
since it can only expect to get about
$1.40 for the wheat it sells overseas.
Federal Cabinet agreed on an offer of
$1.45 about six weeks ago.
It has reached tentative agreement


with the Wheatgrowers’ Federation over
a figure of 90 percent of the new cost-
of-produotion, which suggests about
$1.53 as the final price. This means
that the subsidy cost to taxpayers will
be kept to about $25 million next year.
And next year, it is worth reporting,
is shaping up as the best year ever
in wheat production. The Wheat Board
at a meeting at the end of June pre-
dicted a crop of 464 million bushels.
Its estimates have generally been on the
conservative side in the past, so no
one would be surprised if it surpassed
the 1966-67 crop of 467 million bushels.
MEN AND MATTERS
NEITHER SIDE has yat felt even the
first flush of success in the great
sanitary war between acquisitive Doul-
ton Potteries and defensive R. Fowler
Ltd.
Declaring a one-for-four bonus issue
looked like a smart move by R.
Fowler’s strongly militant board. But
Doultons have come back with an
assurance that their Australian sub-
sidiary will float publicly and that
Fowler shareholders will receive entitle-
ments to a “substantial proportion” of
the shares. Mr. Raymont Moore,
Fowler’s chairman, is still strongly
opposed to the bid. “They want to
acquire Fowler on the cheap and then
dictate their own prices,” says Mr.
Moore, who has claimed that a merger
of these two companies would create a
monopoly in the clay-based sanitary-
ware industry in N.S.W. and Queens-
land.
Doulton’s reply to the monopoly
charge is to claim that half the sanitary-
F. W. Browne
Dr. M. G. Mackay
ware sold in Australia is made from
other materials than clay and that,
anyway, in the half that Doulton
dominate if the bid succeeded, there
would be other producers like Armi-
tage and Hoffman in Victoria, Din-
more in Queensland and Brisbane, and
Wunderlich in Western Australia.
If Doulton succeeds, the man in
charge of the new group will be F. W.
Browne, Doulton’s local managing
director, who has built up the com-
pany’s capacity and profits by leaps
and bounds since he came out here
in 1962 from his job as chief accountant
at head office. When he arrived, Doul-
ton, which had been manufacturing
clay-based pedestal pans, cisterns, and
basins at Chatswood since 1956, had
about 16| percent of the Australian
market for this kind of sanitaryware,
and its pre-tax profits were less than
$130,000; now output has quadrupled,
its share is 39 percent, and its profits
pre-tax have more than trebled to
$432,000.
There is nothing new about a tough
battle to Browne. As a 21-year-old
private soldier he was captured in
France, but escaped later in 1941 and
fought the rest of the war in the
artillery. After this, it was back to
the accountancy firm at which he
started work on leaving school and
then, in 1956, he moved to Doultons
in London.
GOD AND MAMMON can co-exist in
comfort these days. So a man who is a
minister of religion, a member of
Federal Parliament, and an oil com-
pany chairman sees nothing strange in
this conglomeration of interests. In fact,
Dr. Malcolm G. Mackay considers
that the various hats match pretty
well.
Dr. Mackay’s liveliest hat at the
moment is his company chairman one,
as his Longreach Oil Ltd. has bounded
ahead in the stockmarket boom. And
last week he announced that the com-
pany’s extensive mineral exploration
activities may be floated off as a new
public company.
Born in Brighton, South Australia,
49 years ago, Dr. Mackay went to
Adelaide Technical High School and
graduated in Arts and Divinity from
Adelaide and Melbourne Universities,
gaining a doctorate in Philosophy from
Edinburgh.
He was an engineering draughtsman
at the age of 18, a Presbyterian Home
Missionary at Mount Barker until
1941, when he joined the RANVR anti-
submarine service.
After parish work at Merbein, Went-
worth, and Mildura, he became General
Secretary of the Australian Council for
the World Council of Churches, and
minister of Scots Church in Sydney
from 1956 to 1959.
In 1955 he married a minister’s
daughter and they have one son and
one daughter. .
Since 1963 he has represented the
good solid middle-class Sydney elec-
torate of Evans, notwithstanding his
first opponent’s slogan, “For Evans’
sake, vote Monaghan.” He has cham-
pioned the Australian Government’s
moral right to be in Vietnam and
espoused the causes of abolition of the
means test for pensioners.
Mackay was for several years chair-
man of television current-affairs pro-
grams “The Burning Question” and
“Open Hearing.”
Never far from a spotlight, he led
an anonymous syndicate in a bid to
buy the Queen Mary for migrant runs
and luxury cruises for families, but she
eventually went to Californian interests,
who have since been appalled at the
cost of refitting her. He has made a
similiar bid for the Queen Elizabeth,
and, if successful, promises to form a
public company, selling 30 to 40 per-
cent of the shares to the public.
OWING TO A mechanical error, the
blocklines under last week’s photo-
graphs on this page were transposed.
We apologise to Messrs. Ken McMahon
and Jeffrey Penfold Hyland, whose
names appeared under the wrong
photographs, for the mistake.
FISHING
RUSSIAN MESSAGE
IF AUSTRALIA does not develop her
fishing resources, then some other coun-
try will. That is the simple message
left behind by the visit of the Russian
prawner Van Gogh. It is a message that
has already been stated fairly clearly
in the activities of Japanese fishermen
off the Australian coast. It is a message
that relates not simply to areas within
the new 12-mile limit but to the much
larger fishing grounds outside it that
are still within developmental range of
the coast: For Australia’s fishing
resources are in a relatively undeveloped
state, apart from some specific activities
such as prawns, crayfish, and scallops in
some locations, in which Australia is
becoming a world force.
Fishing for crayfish is a $2O million
industry in Australia; prawns worth
S6J million were caught in 1966-67 and
the total has multiplied since then, and
should continue to do so if Australian
fishermen are not subjected to too much
competition in the Gulf of Carpentaria,
where this year’s catch is expected to
rise to three million lb. and to more
than double this next year.
But Australian scale fishing is simply
underdeveloped. There is massive scope
for further exploitation before Aus-
tralia’s fishing grounds become anything
like as intensively fished as the world’s
major areas. And there is going to be a
mounting need to exploit them, as con-
servation policies in the older, over-
fished areas, such as the North Atlantic,
force attention on new grounds. For
instance, Peru has developed remark-
ably in the last decade; ten years ago
its catch was about as big as Britain’s,
but now it is eight times larger. On
Peru’s example, the Australian fishing
industry has barely scratched the sur-
face.
Fish accounts for only about one per-
cent of total world food supplies. But
its animal protein contribution is sig-
nificant, particularly in many develop-
ing countries, where fish provides about
half of the animal protein in the diet.
This, by the way, is one reason so many
developing nations try to stimulate their
fishing industries, and where most of
the world’s fishing growth is likely to
come from.
There is a big export business in fish


that has increased rapidly in recent
years, helped by the speedy develop-
ment of freezing equipment, as well as
the traditional canning and curing tech-
niques. World trade in fish and fish
products now totals about $1740 mil-
lion a year, or about six percent of total
trade in agricultural primary products.
The main increases in demand for
fish have come not from the consumer
market but from farming and industry.
In America, demand for fish oil is grow-
ing largely because the use of inedible
raw materials in the production of food
is illegal. It is also used in paints,
varnishes, and soaps. In Europe, fish oil
is mainly used in the production of
margarine. The demand for fish meal
has gone ahead even faster under the
stimulus of modern pig- and poultry-
farming, according to the “Economist.”
In both these end-uses, the quality of
the fish does not matter too much, nor
does the fact that it has been frozen.
The newer fishing nations (Peru,
some African States, and Russia) are
leading the rise in world fish-output.
Ten years ago the world’s catch totalled
33.2 million tons; by 1966 it had risen
to 56.8 million tons and this rate of
expansion is expected to continue with
1980’s catch estimated at 75 million
tons. At this rate, almost a doubling
every decade, the Food and Agricultural
Organisation of the United Nations has
warned that known areas would be
fished-out within 20 years or so unless
there were conservation agreements. And
these are happening in the old areas,
which helps explain why the rises in
output of Britain, Denmark, and
Canada, for instance, are very moderate.
But another factor in their lower
production rises is that, in many older
fishing nations, local demand has either
slowed down or declined. As countries
become more affluent there is a trend
toward declining fish consumption; fish
and chips is a working-class dish. And
there is also a swing from cheaper fish
to better kinds (reflected in Australian
production figures which show john
dory and barramundi on the upswing
and flathead and bream on the down).
This swing in demand explains the
paradox that the countries with large
fish surpluses are also the biggest im-
porters America, Britain, Germany,
an( l France. Along with Japan and
Italy they take 70 percent of world
exports, mostly from the developing
countries. _ . .
The Australian fishing industry is
fairly poorly equipped, in general, but
th a t is nothing unusual for an industry
that has world-wide equipment prob-
lems. In the North Atlantic, for
instance, there are too many out-of-date
vessels having to travel too far to get
varieties of fish for which local demand
declining, and running the risk that
! hen ?f tch ™k ST gol f bad by he
time tney get Dack t 0 p ? rt ‘
The answer is to fish in the best areas
without worrying about the time factor,
and can done by installing deep-
freezing equipment on board. Already
one-third of Canada’s and Russia’s total
catch is landed deep-frozen. And the
Russians are strong supporters of the
factory-travvler system, where the fish
15 P rocess ' d and packed for the con.
sumer on board. But this requires heavy
ran ; fa i nllt i av anf t renuirA it seems
capital outlay, and requires, it seems,
o ffi cia l assistance from governments in
fishing nations before it can be achieved.
j n g r j ta { n there is a new subsidy
policy that is aimed at encouraging re-
equipment along these lines. And while
the British subsidy, which has been
about $4 million a year, is now to rise
to $9 million a year, it is nowhere near
the world’s biggest. Norway’s fishermen
are subsidised by about $3O million a
year.
So the Australian Government is
faced with many more policy decisions
to make on fishing quite apart from
those raised by the Van Gogh’s incur-
sions into the Gulf of Carpentaria’s
banana prawns. There seems little the
Government can do to preserve even
greater tracts of the Gulf outside the
12-mile limit for exclusive Australian
exploitation; suggestions that it should
declare the whole gulf territorial waters
have already been dismissed in Can-
berra as unlikely to get to first base in
international law. And there seems a
fair case for the view that the 12-mile
limit gives enough protection for the
crayfish and prawn industries, provided
there is international agreement among
trawling countries that the areas will
not be over-exploited.
Getting such agreements for Aus-
tralian waters is the Government’s first
task. But if foreigners have better equip-
ment capable of greater catches in
quicker time, the answer is not to try
to frighten them off with a gunboat,
but to match them. And for Australia
to become a leading fishing nation (at
present its catch is very small by world
standards) it will need a massive up-
grading of equipment with the intro-
duction of sonar and other techniques
for detecting shoals of fish, that have so
far received little attention in Australia.
If overseas experience is any guide,
this question of equipment could mean
a greater governmental involvement in
the industry. Someone has to take a
national view, and the potential for
export income from this industry, if it
were developed as it should, is very
large indeed.


You will
save money
when your staff visits Melbourne
by booking them into
The Victoria
Hotel
in the heart
of the city.
ffi.
":fn
01 Bl
■ i ka i
ii u uni
■> pibibj Un
mm\
Over $H million has been spent
on making The Victoria Melbourne's
leading hotel for businessmen.
Modern accommodation in the heart
of the city costs only $7 single,
$l2 double (private bathroom $1
per person extra) with full breakfast.
Free under-cover car parkingand fully
licensed restaurant. The Victoria,
Australia’s largest hotel, is also the
ideal venue for sales conventions,
company dinners, cocktail parties.
Please ask for quote.
The Victoria Hotel
Melbourne
215 Little Collins St. Phone 63 0441.
Telegrams ‘Accommodation’ Melbourne.
Or book through your Travel Agent.
V6B/4
-THE BULLETlN-
subscription RATES
OTHER OVERSEAS Rates on
COUNTRIES application
AUSTRALIAN RATE also applies for copies
posted to the following:
Norfolk Island, Chr'stmas Island
Cocos Island, Lord Howe Island, Nauru
and Australian Armed Forces Abroad.
Orders may be placed at:
Australian Con ~olidated Press Limited,
168-174 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
G.P.O. Box 4088, Sydney
or at the following branch offices:
Australian Consolidated Press,
Newspaper House,
Collins Street. Melbourne, Victoria.
Teachers' Union Building,
81 Elizabeth Street. Brisbane, Queensland.
24-26 Halifax Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Brambles Building, Bond Street, Newcastle.
NEW ZEALAND
GOiR'DON 8> GOTCH (N.Z.) LTD..
P.O. BOX 1595, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
BRITAIN AND EIRE:
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd..
107 Fleet 'Street, London,
U.S.A. AND CANADA:
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Speculator’s Diary
TWO GOOD STOCKS
FROM THE
MARKET SHAKEOUT
THE CURRENT thinness in the
market is quite in contrast to the
phenomenal turnovers recorded in May
and early June. In view of the large
staff expansions and the many moves to
more spacious premises, brokers will be
biting their fingernails if conditions
don’t soon improve. However, one
major consolation is that they are
being presented with a golden oppor-
tunity to get their scrip departments
up to date—it will be quite a novelty
for many of the newer patrons of brok-
ing offices to receive settlement cheques
by return mail.
A major cause of the backlog of
paperwork has been the tardiness of
some share registries in issuing new
certificates. One of the main offenders
has been the AOD share registry, which
at one stage was taking over three
months to process transfers. However,
the recent threat of suspension of its
shares has resulted in an assurance by
AOD that it will, in future, take a
maximum of two weeks to issue new
scrip. i
If, or when, the market improves,
scrip clerks will again be cursing com-
panies which float off part of their
interests in a non-renounceable priority
issue. The priority issue in Abrolhos,
made to Longreach shareholders last
April, proved quite a headache to scrip
clerks. Because of the right to over-
apply, it is still uncertain how many
Abrolhos shares some unregistered
buyers of Longreach will eventually
receive. Scrip clerks must therefore be
awaiting with some trepidation the pro-
posed Hawkstone float by Longreach
later in the year.
The market shakeout during the last
week provided opportunities for buying
speculative stocks at more attractive
levels. My first buy was Oil Search,
which I have been keen about for some
time. The shares have been as high
as $1.53 this year, and I was pleased
to be able to buy 500 at $1.12 during
the week (they later fell to $1.05). Oil
Search is due to spud-in the Ini No. 1
well off Papua toward the end of July.
The well will be drilled by Esso as part
of a farmout obligation to Australasian
Petroleum in which Oil Search has a
50 percent holding, the other interests
being BP, 37 percent, and Mobil, 13
percent. Under the agreement, Esso
will earn a 50 percent interest in the
project with Australasian Petroleum,
which will involve four exploratory
wells altogether at a total cost of $6
million. The first well is to be on Ini
Island in Deception Bay, three and a
half miles south of the Oil Search Iviri
well which was drilled in 1965 and
where the presence of a substantial trap
for oil was proved. It is not easy ter-
rain to work in, but it seems to hold
considerable potential for both oil and
gas. This well is said to be on the
same structure as the Phillips’ Uramu
No. 1A gas discovery well, and is
only 13 miles away. Reliable infor-
mation has it that oil was also encoun-
tered in the Uramu well (denied by
Phillips), but, unfortunately, testing
was suspended before completion owing
to the “onset of the trade-winds.” My
own opinion is that if you want a
gamble on an oil strike, then Oil Search
is your best bet.
My second buy for the week is 400
Planet Metals. I am going to regard
these shares purely as trading stock,
even though I think their long-term
prospects are fairly sound. The shares
have fluctuated between 75 cents and
$1.86 this year, which certainly gives
good scope for jobbing.
Although Pianet Metals does not
make announcements very often, this
should not be regarded as being
symptomatic of its exploration activity.
Indeed, on the contrary, Planet Metals
is one of the more diversified and
active exploration companies. It has
done a large amount of drilling at
Mount Robin, a copper-silver prospect
in Queensland, and results to date have
been encouraging. Planet Metals also
is investigating nickel prospects in
Queensland and N.S.W., and copper-
lead-zinc prospects in South Australia.
Besides the Mt. Robin prospect,
probably the most interesting leases
Planet Metals holds are its very large
offshore exploration permits. It is the
most active company exploring for
metals on the continental shelf, and has
already made promising discoveries
of rutile in buried beach sands a few
miles off the coast of southern Queens-
land. There is no doubt that in a few
years the continental shelf (and deeper
areas) will make a material contribu-
tion to the world’s mineral supplies,
just as it is now producing an increas-
ing quantity of oil. But a pioneer
such as Planet Metals will need to solve
the mining problems associated with
offshore production. These should, how-
ever, be less for rutile sands than for
many other offshore minerals.
As there is still a substantial credit
left in kitty, I again decided not to
make any sales this week.
BOUGHT
500 Oil Search . . . $1.12 $572
400 Planet Metals . . $1.05 $429
Kitty now stands at $4865 in credit
Share Company Bought Share Price
300 Ralta Holdings 25/7/67 .56 .30
200 Stegbar 17/8/67 1.46 1.82
400 Trade Credits 20/9/67 1.19 1.50
350 Hilton Corp. 10/10/67 1.08 1.00
200 Bonds Industries 22/11/67 1.45 1.45
450 TNT 29/2/6S 1.19 1.75
200 Hooker Investment 21/3/68 .57 .89
100 BHP 21/3/68 18.00 23.40
200 Brooker Holdings 9/4/68 1.23 1.85
200 Hardie Trading 9/4/68 1.60 2.05
200 Mt. Isa 2/5/68 6.90 7.80
500 Slater Walker 8/5/68 4.50 5.50
200 H. H. Webb 8/5/68 .99 1.01
300 Waltons 24/5/68 .95 1.26
200 Prestige 6/6/68 1.18 1.93
100 Peko-Wallsend 6/6/68 13.00 12.70
400 Dickson Primer 13/6/68 .54 .57
200 'Leighton Contractors 13/6/68 1.67 1.90
200 Consolidated Milk 20/6/68 .62 .62
400 Frigrite 27/6/68 .73 .84
200 W. T. Coggins 4/7/68 1.53 1.60
200 R. N. Statbarrv 4/7/68 .75 .78
400 Jeffries Industries 11/7/68 .58 .65
200 Kolotex Holdings 11/7/68 4.00 4.10
500 Oil Search 17/7/68 1.12 1.15
400 Planet Metals 17/7/68 1.05 1.10


7 ip 4*J
V
i
r
T.
w
*r
W
Both trucks are rated
at 7 tons, but the
truck in front is
fitted with Plank-flor,
giving it an extra
12 cwt. of payload.
Running cost of
each fully loaded
truck is 35 cents per
mile. The revenue of
the truck with the
steel and timber tray
is 70 cents per mile.
The revenue of the
truck with the Plank-
flor is 76 cents per
mile. That's an extra
6 cents per mile
clear profit on the
load alone, not
including all the
other money and
maintenance saving
benefits of Alcan
Plank-flor.
Alcan adds ideas to aluminium...
and tough Plank-flor puts 17% more
profit info the payload in front.
Both trucks are the same size. Both
are carrying the same merchan-
dise. The difference is that the
truck in front is fitted with Alcan
Plank-flor while the rear truck has
standard wood and steel flooring.
Plank-flor is a set of aluminium
alloy sections that lock together
to make a truck or van floor. It is
stronger, and lasts longer than
the old wood and steel floors, yet
on a small unit it can save half a
ton —on a big unit a ton.
That not only means an operator
can carry more payload, it means
big savings in registration, third
party costs, and road tax as well.
Empty weight fuel consumption
is much lower too, and tyre and
maintenance costs come down
to bedrock (Plank-flor needs no
painting, will never rust.)
In its two years on the market
Plank-flor has proven these
claims where they count —right
in the operator's pocket.
To Alcan Australia Limited,
Suite 2800, Australia Square, Sydney, 2000.
Please forward me further details of Alcan's Aluminium Plank-flor.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
POSTCODE
AL6252/68


ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY
%
average dividend . .
5.74
MELBOURNE
dividend
4 05
earnings . .
6 69
LONDON (F.T.
dividend
3 '88
earnings . .
4.83
NEW YORK (S
& p>
dividend
2 86
earnings . .
5 43
C'WEALTH
BONDS
Week
before
Fri.
%
%
Short
4 83
4 81
Medium
5 07
5.06
Long
5.25
5 25
THE
WEEK'S
TURNOVERS
i
SYDNEY
1
MELBOURNE
INDUSTRIAL
MINING
11 N D USTRI AL|
MINING
Sales
Vol.
1000
Value
$
1000
Sales .| Value
Vol. | S
1000 | aooo
Sales
Vol.
1000
Value | Sales | Value
5 Vol. 1 S
11000 1 1000ij 1000
Week oefore . . .
Week to Friday . .
1 8051
| 7058
113054
|ill646 I
6110 1 10723
6163 ■! 8924
I 5580
| 6271
110165 | 4699 |13775
1 9499 | 4255 M0564
OVERSEAS INDEXES
1 London
( “Financial Times
New York i| Tokyo
Dow Jones |D. Jones
| Inds.
Secs. |
Gold
Inds. | Rails | Avge,
Jan. 2,
1967-68
1967-68
Month
Week
Latest
1968 . . .
■h ich . . . .
low
ago
ago
. | 385
. • 490
310
. 471
485
490
0
9
3
3
3
9
76.281
81.951
74.18
74 18
74 271
74 00]
62
87
47
80
7‘6
73
.8
.3
9
6
.2
906.841 236
943 081 274
791 14 205
898 28 263
924 69] 266
917.951 259
4411266 27
49|1565 87
3111257 91
23|1482 54
9311564 48
41|1565 87
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY |
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
•last
AM ordinaries . .
616.01
606.93
223.39
217.16
50 leaders
250.83 '
243.41
Banks . •
251.92
173.30
173.45 '
173.30
Other finances . .
790.59
766.81
111.14
108.59
'Pastoral ....
263.11
269.46
138.49
141.79
Transport . . '
608.23
596.78
118.37
117.28
Retail Merchants
406.39
406.05
118.57
117.78
Services ....
72.05 ■
70.93
Foods
260.57
259.53
148.160
147.76
Textiles ....
245.83
248.57
108.03
109.60
Chemical
424.42
420.83
102.81
101.65
■Electricals ....
508.29
517.89
Paper
127.07
126.55
BuM'ding ....
892.62
897.30
116.40
117.09
Automotive . . .
788.62
794.06
117.64
794.06
Fuel Power . . .
291.128
2816.44
Steel engineering .
1688.46
1642.15
377.85
360.09
Non-ferrous . . .
3614.45
3523.73
807.53
774.36
OIL.
SUGAR
1 Week
1 Friday
Week
Friday
I ago
| last
ago
| <last
Brisbane ....
| 420.91
410.73
; 114.46
j 112.70
Melbourne
| 366.2
| 364.08
[
BRIEFLY
The economy. The cost of living rose again in June
quarter, with the retail price index up 0.8 percent for
the six capitals average, following a 0.4 percent rise in
March, 0.3 percent in December, and 1.4 percent in
September quarters, and giving a 2.8 percent rise for the
year, the lowest since 1964.
London Metal Exchange lead prices have moved
£stg.4 a ton higher this week, partly because of the Broken
Hill strike, now entering its eleventh week. The miners
have been stopping for two 24-hour periods each week.
The strike has already cost $lO million.
Australia’s wool growers received an average 31.75 cents
a pound for their product, the lowest return for nine
years. The wool cheque was $639 million, down
10 percent on 1966-67.
Strong capital inflow from overseas has greatly boosted
deposits with the major trading banks.
The markets' On Australian stock exchanges, mining
and oil stocks had their worst shakeout in the year-old
mineral boom, turnovers falling to around 1 to 1J million
shares, compared with the daily average of 2.7 million
shares in happier days. The Sydney all ordinaries index
dropped 6.56 points to 600.32 on Thursday before
recovering to close at 606.23.
The market had anticipated Great Boulder and North
Kalgurli’s news, and Boulders shed $3.40 to $13.40,
before picking up to a final $15.30 . . . WMC slipped to
$13.40, finishing at $13.90, down 70c for the week . . .
Peko lost 90c to $13.30 . . . MKU, on the strength
of export plans, rose from a low for the week of $B.lO
to $lO at end.
Oils were badly affected, Timor coming back to $1.12
from last week’s close of $1.40, but recovered to $1.32,
Oil Search slipped to $1.04, but finished at $1.30.
Amalgamated lost 10c on the week to $l.OB. The
Queensland oil index dropped 10.18 points to 410.73.
Industrials also lost ground, with BHP dropping to $23.40
before finishing at $24, down 70c for the week.
Two new listings provided little joy for the stags.
Rothschild’s International Pacific Corporation opened 30c
above the issue price of $2, while Kempthome
Mistral opened 15c above its issue price of $2.50. But
Australasian Mining Corporation, 20c paid, sold on
opening day at 90c, gathered support on Friday, and
ran up to $1.20 in Perth.
Industrials were strong on the London Stock
Exchange this week with the industrial index rising to an
all-time peak of 492.1. Oils helped by reports of the
massive Alaskan oil prospects moved sharply ahead, too,
as did banking shares. Australian mines were
easier, though, with the change of heart on Friday
they were looking in much better shape at the close.
Wall Street ended the week as it began a loser.
Shortly before the closing bell, declines were far out-
numbering advances at 898 to 424 from the 1531 issues
traded.
Companies ’ A 24 percent profit hike by APM to $9.29
million came largely from lower tax provision. Earning
rate accelerated from 11.7 to 14.4 percent . . . Bums
Philp broke a 15-year tradition of 10 percent dividends,
to pay 12£ percent, and hopes to continue this
rate . . . Rothmans lifted profit 53 percent to $2.7 million,
but failed to equal pre-1967 results.
A profit boost of 27 percent was announced by Associated
Securities. CSR would find it extremely difficult to
match 1967-68’s profit of $14.5 million, said chairman
Mr. J. W. Dunlop.
Tooheys has bought a 10-acre site at Cardiff, near
Newcastle, large enough for a full-scale brewery.
Shareholders of United Holdings have been advised by
directors to accept the Aetna takeover offer. The
marauding U.K. Doulton Potteries group announced
that it will float its local interest to the Australian public,
whether or not its current $4.4 million takeover bid
for R. Fowler succeeds.
Tyree Industries cancelled the 500,000 share options
recently granted to the Tyree family company as no longer
necessary to enable them to retain control.
Important trials in the making of steel from metallised
agglomerate material by Hamersley ore will be held
in Canada later this year, Hamersley announced in its
interim report. Profit for the June half was $9,329,000,
' 75 percent of the profit earned in the last full year.
Great Boulder and North Kalgurli made their most
promising nickel discovery in the Scotia field, with values
of 3.42 percent nickel in a width of 55.3 feet.
MKU has applied for Government permission to export
uranium oxide worth nearly $9O million, and Minister
for National Development, Mr. D. Fairbairn, has given the
nod, depending on the sale price proposed, the countries
to be supplied, and the intended uses for the uranium.
Esso and BHP have upgraded the estimate of their Bass
Strait natural gas reserves by 25 percent to 5.6
million cubic feet of marketable gas, more than enough
to make a commercial proposition of it in N.S.W.
Jumping on the minerals bandwagon, Project
Development Corporation will float off its W.A. mineral
exploration activities as Project Mining Corporation.
Acmex has placed 250,000 50c shares at $3.32 through a
Sydney broking house. Magellan seeks $3 million
in a one-for-five issue at 200 percent premium to share-
holders registered on August 9.
STATISTICS
YIELDS


:
sis
-i-' . .*sx-
■Ji-Y'
>£*>
• J,
m*\
i£3ss
*•
r#>
it
* nv
v®****. :
y* **
Nr ■' *# ’ V "'" •
V'T'
THE RAIN GO
...will you use it to full advantage?
Faced over long years with a varying
and unpredictable rainfall, the man-on-
the-land has frequently had to gamble
on luck and the expected rains.
Whilst long experience has wrought
skills and wisdom in handling the land,
this hazardous rainfall pattern has
tended to reduce overall average yields
and carrying capacity.
Today, increasing knowledge of plant
nutrition is providing greater certainty
of production levels for the farmer.
Plants dependent on natural rainfall
need to make the best use of available
so'il moisture. The fact that frequently
they don’t do this is of vital importance.
In many cases this is brought about by
a deficiency of one or more of the
essential plant nutrient elements. The
key to the situation lies in a simple
fact called ‘The Law of the Minimum’
which states: ‘The growth of all plants
is limited by the most deficient plant
nutrient present, all others being pre-
sent in adequate amounts.
Think of what this means. The most
deficient nutrient element will limit the
ability of the plant to use to advantage
not only the other nutrients present in
the soil, but also the available water.
Obviously, this fact has important impli-
cations for the efficient use of our limi-
ted rainfall and the ability of plants to
perform well under low moisture condi-
tions.
Under the low-yield drought conditions
of 1965, a wheat trial was carried out
by the New South Wales Department
of Agriculture. This trial graphically
demonstrated the effect of soil nutrient
correction on water-use efficiency.
Using adjacent plots at Burcher,
m
FERTILIZERS:
KEY TO FARM
PROSPERITY
N.S.W., fertilizers were used to increase
from 7.8 bushels to 19.5 bushels
per acre under identical moisture con-
ditions. This result represented an in-
crease of 150 per cent in water-use effi-
ciency due solely to the correction of
plant nutrient deficiencies.
The process of correction is best under-
taken by the application of chemical
fertilizers containing the nutrient ele-
ments vital to plant growth.
Of the essential elements, the most im-
portant are nitrogen, phosphorus, potas-
sium and sulphur, because these are re-
quired in large amounts. Secondary
and trace elements, including calcium,
magnesium, molybdenum, zinc and
boron, are also necessary.
On an expanding scale, Greenleaf is
manufacturing fertilizers containing all
the elements required for the balanced
nutrition of our crops and pastures.
GREENLEAF FERTILIZERS LIMITED
fgtEl
A MEMBER OF THE CONZINC RIOTINTO OF AUSTRALIA GROUP WORKS: COCKLE CREEK AND NEWCASTLE . PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTED BY AUSTRALIAN FERTILIZERS LIMITED, SYDNEY
GL6B


THE LAND
How domestic
rivalries handicap
the woolgrowers
T. B. C. Walker ...
“the majority contri-
bute insignificantly”
WOOLGROWERS CANNOT be
entering the current selling season in
a very sanguine frame of mi' 1. Their
whole industry is beset with difficulties,
not to say dissension, over a wide area.
Few candid observers would expect a
unified approach to a resolution of
these difficulties within the near future.
And to darken the present atmosphere
there are the dismal reminders of a
financially harsh 1967-68.
All this, of course, may be putting
the situation far too glumly. The
industry has been beleaguered and
divided many times before and has
somehow contrived to hold its leading
role as Australia’s prime export-earner.
But now some of its spokesmen are
tending to be driven to a tone of
desperation, which certainly won’t be
much of a help in solving immediate
limited and technical problems, let
alone major matters of principle. Such
things as freights, containerisation, and
attitudes to the textile manufacturers
call for quick decision. Later in the
year the whole process of the Wool
Board’s marketing proposals has to be
faced again.
Perhaps any marked degree of
grower unity looks something of a
pipe-dream. Yet lack of more common
ground is proving a tactical liability
to growers, especially as their various
representatives get closer to asking for
a measure of Government assistance.
The Federal Government may be stall-
ing in asking for full industry agree-
ment where this is impossible. It is
no help for the president of the Aus-
tralian Woolgrowers and Graziers’
Council, Mr. T. B. C. Walker, to com-
plain: “To expect a common approach
among the 100,000-odd primary pro-
ducers who grow some wool, the
majority of whom contribute insignifi-
cantly toward total production, is
farcical and quite unrealistic.”
Unless all grower organisations,
whether they represent small or large
growers, are becoming more willing
to seek assiduously for more common
ground, it will be idle for Mr. Walker
to use disagreement as a defence and
to argue: “It is an excuse for Govern-
ment inertia. This is hard to understand
in the light of the acknowledged need
to boost exports.”
The costs problem can surely b<
recognised as common to the whole of
rural industry. If wool then needs any
further goad to encourage more har-
mony and quick decisiveness within its
industry, let it keep in mind last
season’s results and an almost unani-
mous consensus about what is going to
happen this season.
For the record, the latest wool cheque
dropped back a solid $68.8 million to
$639.4 million its lowest level since
1969-61 and very little attributable to
the lingering effects of drought. Aver-
age greasy prices for 1967-68 went down
by almost 12J percent. It should be
regarded as quite significant that, amid
this overall decline, fine and medium-
fine merinos managed to climb
steadily higher than their 1967 open-
ings. The continued demand for quality
wools constitutes the 'basis of a sur-
vival (even expansion) program for the
industry which many advocates have
been urging.
That is merely by the way. But the
growers can surely be provoked into a
little more internal agreement by con-
sidering the probable outcome of the
prevailing world position. Total wool
supplies are expected to increase, ac-
companied, it is hoped, by a slightly
greater increase in consumption. Rather
optimistically, some sources are pre-
dicting a small rise in wool prices, but
the emphasis is very much on small.
With that backdrop, it obviously be-
hoves grower organisations to get crack-
ing on freight negotiations (where par-
ticular difficulties are likely to arise
with the European importers) and to
rebut charges of delay in striking a
policy on containers. Some compromise
between containerisation and the unit-
load concept would appear desirable in
order to obviate the danger to freight
costs produced by possible over-
tonnage on the Europe-Australia-
Europe round voyage.
None of these pressing matters can
begin to be solved if the old type of
“wool politics” remains much longer
to divide the industry. Some critics
are right in feeling that “political” ideas
are becoming more and more liable to
interfere in the judgment of direct,
factual problems. What such processes
have meant in the past may be gathered
from an informative and well-docu-
mented article, “The Politics of Wool-
growing,” in the June issue of “The
Australian Quarterly.” Its author, Mr.
G. P. S. Harman, of the Australian
National University, mostly allows the
economic and moral lessons to make
themselves. It is not especially edifying
to read of the prolonged differences
between graziers and wheat-sheep-
farmers over marketing and promotion,
nor to realise that these don’t appear
to be in sight of any resolution.
It is melancholy (even if realistic)
to admit the part that “social and
cultural differences” play in dividing
woolgrowers—much greater, Mr. Har-
man observes, “than divide the pro-
ducers of any other farm commodity.”
Such a story lends truth to the assertion
that many of wool’s difficulties come
from inside the grower sector and that
domestic rivalries must be lessened by
grower organisations themselves.
AGRISEARCH
DWARF WHEAT'S FUTURE
AT THIS JUNCTURE, apart from
cotton, wheat is the most promising
crop for the Ord. And the best kind of
wheat to grow there should be based
on the semi-dwarf varieties. So say
CSIRO agronomists Mr. D. F. Beech
and Dr. M. J. T. Norman. The dwarf
and semi-dwarf wheats have proved
vastly successful overseas. They have
already transformed the wheat industry
in Mexico. Turkey is assuming that
Sonora 64, a semi-dwarf, will do the
same for her. Pakistan and several
other countries are switching over
to the dwarfs. Wheatbreeders in
the U.S.A. now refer to the “pre-
dwarf” era. Their record-breaking
variety, Gaines, contains the dwarf
genes. Soon, similar wheats will be
made available to Australian growers
by the State Departments of Agri-
culture for sowing in certain parts of
the established wheatbelt and probably
elsewhere, such as on the Ord. It is
time to become better acquainted with


iStumties
l Trade and
Itadustrv __
objects.
in
Eligibility should b B r»sh r Sab
ApP i' C health, wW ® d ®* uW alent
g°° d „ h f,nWersity _or „ ep und in e
an Aus-
qualities
J/NrtfPft.
ssggasssw-
Application o the Depart® artme nt of
OnWers-tyApP of
InWersity APP— intere st-
. n ffers 3 variety fields
sjs^r^-
>*"” ”J* ««— *
international W*
SSn° d -.mpo rtP ° UCy
$3300 pa-
s3sso P-a-
Three year pass oegi
Four year ° r
HSw^SSS
Opportunities
excellent. , nE aN d industry
of trade anu
department
$3850 P- a *
these strange wheats, which, because of
their unprecedented productivity, have
set the world to talking and hoping.
As a class, the semi-dwarfs have a
capacity to respond wonderfully when
the soil is rich, especially in nitrogen
and there is no shortage of water. In
these circumstances, the standard,
relatively long-strawed varieties are not
in the hunt. Under ideal conditions,
these wheats can yield about 100
bushels per acre or perhaps a bit better,
but the semi-dwarfs can easily reach
150 bushels, and probably before long
we will read about a farmer with a
200-bushel crop. The ratio of straw to
grain is roughly 1.5 for semi-dwarfs
compared with 2.5 for the ordinary
varieties. Ear length approximates one-
third of the total height of the plants.
Each plant sprouts a remarkable num-
ber of tillers. In addition, the grain
itself is long and large. These features
account for the high-yield potential of
the dwarfs. Moreover, they are very
resistant to rusts and other diseases
and are not subject to lodging. Hence
the reason for the harvests being con-
sistently good year after year.
Against these advantages must be set
several disadvantages which the peculiar
Australian environment will tend to
exacerbate. The dwarfs are relatively
more sensitive to water stress, and any
lack of water during the ripening period
can cut yield heavily. Where soil fertil-
ity is low, they cannot express their
potential either, and may not yield even
as well as the old varieties. Being short,
they suffer 'badly in competition with
weeds. Finally, no matter how high the
nitrogen level of the soil, the protein
content of the grain remains relatively
low and the flour for bread-baking is
definitely inferior. These limitations
suggest that any new varieties bred here
with dwarf genes will be suitable only
for growing under irrigation or in the
most-favored parts of the wheatbelt.
Of course, depending on the economics
of other forms of production, they
could shift the wheatbelt into the higher-
rainfall districts. Farmers in highland
and coastal areas should not lose sight
of this possibility. The dwarfs could
offer a way out for some Australian
dairy farmers.
The New South Wales Department of
Agriculture at Leeton is keenly studying
the performance of the dwarfs under
irrigation. The acreage of irrigated
wheat has been increasing rapidly, par-
ticularly in south-western New South
Wales, where some 200,000 acres have
been planted this year. None of our old
Australian varieties is suited to these
conditions, and yields, though high com-
pared with dryland wheat, have been
disappointing. In early trials a Mexican
dwarf has given outstanding results,
which intimates that crops exceeding
100 bushels an acre could become com-
monplace on commercial farms when
dwarf varieties have been spcially bred
for the district.
Australian wheatbreeders in all
States, at long last, are now intensely
interested in these prolific dwarfs,
Dozens of experiments involving them
~are in progress throughout the Corn-
monwealth. As a result of all this activ-
ity, great changes in wheatgrowing
seem certain to occur within the next
five years or so. Our first semi-dwarfs
were imported from the U.S.A. 12 years
ago. We got more later from Latin
America. Their success was such that in
the course of a decade Mexico has be-
come a major exporter of wheat, from
being a large importer. History will
relate this story as one of the few
joyous episodes of the 20th century,
The extraordinary thing is that Jap-
anese farmers were growing dwarf
wheats more than 30 years ago, having
got the parent material from the U.S.A.
about half a century back. In the early
1930 s Japan was hard-pressed to feed
her swelling population. She could not
afford to overlook any opportunity. At
that time our wheat'breeders still be-
lieved that tall growth implied high
yields, but completely failed to visu-
alise the possibility that one day our
wheatlands would be fertile, and that
we would have abundant supplies of
fertiliser, versatile machines, weedicides.
Not perceiving, they did not initiate
research aimed far enough in advance of
the times. One wonders whether we
have learned the lesson. Certainly, it is
damned hard to find a piece of research
that seems to be oriented to the year
2000.


INVESTMENT
.MINING • SECURITY ANALYSIS • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS • THE MARKETS • OIL TABLE
The Markets
SOME GOOD REASONS
FOR THE SWITCH
INTO INDUSTRIALS
THERE IS A lot to be said for the
switch out of the more speculative
mining stocks into good industrials that
seems to have been going on in the past
week or so. It is a course of action that
has been recommended here for some
time, as the risks attached to the more
speculative miners seem more related
to the racetrack than the stockmarket.
But apart from the mining sector,
whose prospects seem in the main to
justify the high prices now being
charged for good-quality stocks like
WMC, CRA, BHP, and Mt. Isa, how
healthy is the industrial market? After
all, it has had a solid rise already in
1968, and with institutional investors
ploughing ever-increasing amounts into
industrial shares, with British investors
giving them increasing attention, and
with Australian speculators switching
some of their mining profits into some-
thing a little safer, the prospects are
that demand for industrials will be
enough to bring continuing rises in the
months ahead.
And last weekend the Commonwealth
Government indicated that it thought
prospects for the economy were pretty
good, so that there should be a solid
basis to the coming rise in the non-
mining sector of the stockmarket.
In its pre-budget economic White
Paper, the Federal Treasury forecast
an increased rate of growth for the
economy, an improvement in the trade
balance and a recovery in rural out-
put and farm income while warning
that costs could rise (following 1967-
68’s lift on the cost of living of only
2.8 percent, the lowest for four years)
and that capital inflow would prob-
ably fall from 1967-68’s record $llOO
million. The moral seems to be that
things are good enough for the
Government to be thinking of an elec-
tion later this year. This suggests that
there are unlikely to 'be any tax rises
or other serious measures aimed at
restraining the private sector in next
month’s budget, as Mr. McMahon
still appears to favor some restraint of
the public sector to allow the private
sector to develop at a healthy rate.
There is also talk of a $1 rise in
pensions in the budget, which would
have an immediate impact on con-
sumer spending and therefore on
the retail stores, who are already doing
much better because of recent im-
provements in sales. Retail spending
should also be helped along further
by the certain recovery in farm in-
comes from last year’s drought-affected
levels as good seasonal conditions now
appear to have spread into all but
a few areas. This could be one reason
for the sudden improvement in motor
vehicle registrations in June, as some
backlog of demand was caught up.
There is also the prospect that some
of the profits made on the stockmarket
in the past 18 months may find their
way into consumption expenditure.
So the retail stores, appliance makers,
and motor-car distributors all stand
to do well in the current year.
But the Treasury White Paper sees
better prospects for the heavier end of
the private sector as well. “Over the
past year, investment expenditure has
been on the’ rise and, so far as the
signs can now be read, ought to go
on running strongly.” The building
industry should continue to do well,
for a start, as the Treasury says, “The
demand for dwellings should continue
to grow and the rate at which
non-residential buildings have been
approved in recent months should keep
spending on factories, offices, schools,
and the like at a high and rising level.”
There are some moderately priced
stocks in this industry, like Concrete
Industries, John Mcllwraith, G. E.
Crane, and the newly listed roller-door
company, Byrne and Davidson, that
should do well.
The Treasury sees the prospect that
“expenditure on plant and machinery
could increase rather sharply. Expendi-
ture on industrial and commercial build-
ing has been heavy, and these buildings
have to be equipped.” So stocks like
McPhersons and Bradford Kendall have
appeal. And the Treasury makes the
point that has been mentioned here
frequently that there is likely to be some
rise in the demand for farm machinery,
equipment, and supplies, so Ralph
McKay looks interesting. And, natur-
ally, better times on the land should
lead to better share prices for stocks like
Elder Smith-Goldsbrough Mort.
“Plant and equipment will be
required on a big scale for the big
natural resources projects,”, says the
Treasury. Marfleet and Weight seems
one of the best buys in this area.
This continued high level of activity
will have its impact on the whole
economy, however, with transport com-
panies, the banks, and the finance com-
panies continuing to increase their acti-
vities (and with the prospect of some
tightening of liquidity in the coming
year, there could be increasing demand
for finance company credit which may
offset the possibly higher costs of bor-
rowing they could face; in any event,
Associated Securities last week showed
how well this industry has been doing
in recent times).
ONE OF THE leading mining stocks
for which at least one investment
analyst sees a rosy future is Mt. Isa
THE CHARTIST SAYS: harden and johnston ltd. is a stock
well worth considering on technical grounds as it has both short- and medium-
term potential. The chart history showed a “topping” situation in 1963 followed
by a downtrend which resulted in prices finally falling to a low point of 60c in
October, 1967. A base consolidation pattern has since formed and prices rose very
steeply on high volume to $1.27 in April this year, and a trend rate at approxi-
mately 2CO percent per annum has now been confirmed. Any price rise above
$l.lO accompanied by high volume should be a breakout from the current conges-
tion area and targets of approximately $1.75 would be a possibility for the short
term, but the overall base suggests an eventual rise to about $2.50. Last sale price
on 18/7/68 $1.03.


WHY MUST YOU
S-T-A-M-M-E-R-’
Unique internationally accepted treat-
ment to restore normal speech. For in-
formation send 5c stamp to:
JAMES R. LINDSAY,
P.O. Box 543, Toowoomba, Old. 4350.
Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
::
0
PER ANNUM
6 YEARS
PER ANNUM
9 AND 10 YEARS
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
6%
PER ANNUM
12 MONTHS
5 h
PER ANNUM
6 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on
the printed form referred to in and attached to the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms of application should be obtained
from:
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey, (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
28J
Mines. Nine months ago, the Cowan
service quite rightly pointed out that
Mt. Isa shares were severely under-
valued by comparison with other mining
leaders. They were then $4.05; they are
now around $B. Cowan still regards the
stock as undervalued by comparison
with other miners. He points out that in
the past 21 months the capital apprecia-
tion by all the other mining leaders
(except E.Z. Industries and North
Broken Hill) has been more than twice
as great as the growth recorded by
Mt. Isa. In that period, WMC has
gained 1365 percent, Peko-Wallsend
508 percent, CRA 393 percent, BHP
314 percent, New Broken Hill 294 per-
cent, King Island Scheelite 188 percent,
Broken Hill South 187 percent, North
Broken Hill 122 percent, Mt. Isa 84
percent, and E.Z. Industries 76 percent.
The Cowan view is that during the
1970 s Mt. Isa’s earnings will register a
massive increase. Although this will not
be as great in percentage terms as the
increased profit in store for Western
Mining, it will certainly be greater than
some of the companies above it,
especially as Mt. Isa continues to be
engaged in active exploration through-
out the continent (which could mean
that the company’s earnings may
eventually rise by even more than the
huge increase already in prospect from
the Mt. Isa area itself). “We consider
that the price will move quickly above
$lO and accordingly recommend the
stock strongly to all investors.”
THE SITUATION at Australian
Paper Manufacturers is not quite as
good as last week’s profit figures sug-
gest nor quite as bad as the production
figures indicate. The company has re-
ported that profit rose 27 percent for
1967-68 to $9.3 million or 14.4 percent
on capital. But this was only after a
$3 million tax saving mainly due to
deductions because of the company’s
massive capital expenditure during the
year. In effect, pre-tax profit rose by
•only 5 percent. And most of that was
due to a once-off devaluation profit.
Sales in volume terms rose by only 1.8
percent to 430,189 tons (the 3.3 per-
cent rise in sales revenue to $94 million
was partly due to higher prices).
The realities of the situation at APM
seem to be that the company had a
fairly good year in the circumstances
and should have a better one in the
current period. The modest rise in
sales seems in part due to the impact of
drought on packaging demand for some
fruit and meat products, although there
seems little doubt that increasing com-
petition from Cellulose and Smorgons
has followed the softening of the APM
supply undertakings with the main
converters. (APM has agreed to stay
out of paper converting provided the
converters buy the bulk of their paper
from APM. Until recently this under-
taking required exclusive use of APM
products.) This increased competition
could also have had the effect of re-
ducing the need for converters to hold
such large stocks of board, and this
may have been another once-and-for-
all reason for APM’s small sales rise.
There seems every prospect of a
faster rise in sales in the current year,
not only as demand rises but also as
the company’s massive new capacity
will contribute to production for the
full year. This is important in profit
terms, as the new equipment, including
the papermaker at Fairfield and the
pulp mill at Maryvale, is enabling sev-
eral old and relatively inefficient units
to be closed down. The new equipment
has added considerably to the com-
pany’s capacity, but without bringing
benefits of increased production so far.
In addition, there is some prospect
that the Petrie mill could be breaking
into the cigarette-packet board business
with a bang this year. And there is
also the prospect that the increasingly


msmsmmarn.
m
***
m
■\
ummmmm
ai
You can stand
Hawker Siddeley’s smallest
diesel in the boot of your car.
Hawker Siddeley
power stations
come a little bigger.
Hawker Siddeley’s AAI diesel is tiny. Continuous-
ly rated at 4 bhp at 3,600 rpm it's among the
world's smallest and most widely used. But that's
not all. Hawker Siddeley builds diesels from 1-5
bhp to 8,500 bhp □ Hawker Siddeley power sta-
tions come a little bigger. But no less successful.
They have been erected and equipped all over the
world □ Hawker Siddeley Group builds ten differ-
ent types of aircraft, too. In fact, its engineering
index lists a vast range of essential products and
services. That’s what makes this a world-size
industrial group earning aboutsA2 million a day.
SIDDELEY GROUP
18 ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I.
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY: AVIATION: HAWKER DE HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., LIDCOMBE. NEW SOUTH WALES
INDUSTRIAL: hawker siddeley brush pty. ltd., Melbourne, victoria
NOYES BROS. PTY LTD., FREDERICK STREET, ST. LEONARDS, NEW SOUTH WALES
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace equipment with world-wide sales and service


Lysaght: New ways with steel.
J
/
w
...
s
M
\'
■ : -
A new lightweight steel that’s tops on the bottom
LY-TEN
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Telephone: Sydney 709-3755
Melbourne 69-6921, Brisbane 40-4133,
Adelaide 45-8888. Perth 30-3531,
Hobart 72-6616
Time was when only battleships were built of steel. But that was before LY-TEN.
Now not only containers, truck bodies, tractors and rail wagons, but also yachts
and pleasure craft can be made lighter, stronger in steel. LY-TEN has much higher
impact resistance than conventional sheet steel, plus greater corrosion resistance.
And it can be cold-worked or welded, either to itself or any other sheet steel.
Get your weight down, get LY-TEN.
Send now for all the facts on LY-TEN —they could revolutionise your thinking
on the uses of sheet steel.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
Box 329 P 0. Crows Nest, Sydney 2065
Please forward technical details and further
information on the uses of Lysaght LY-TEN
Name
Address
State
Postcode
LYSAGHT
STEEL
ORB


ora
bunch
special keying
systems
for Offices, Factories and
Homes.
Bring Maximum Security
and Convenience right to
your Fingertips.
Carry one key—not a bunch
and
LOCK UP WITH
1111 l
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED.
Edward Street, Huntingdale, Vic. 3166.
Please send further information to
NAME
COMPANY
ADDRESS
■767
successful associate companies like
Pyneboard and Kimberley-Clark will
contribute greater dividends (although
Kimberley-Clark’s contribution fell last
year despite a solid rise in profit). One
reason for APM’s modest sales rises
in recent times has been, by the way,
the transfer of some paper operations
to 50 percent associate companies.
These lire going to be a mounting
source of profit to APM and their divi-
dends will all be tax free, so that
APM’s tax provision will continue to
be well below the normal rate even
when its deductions on new equipment
ease off as expansion moderates.
But the brightest outlook for APM
probably comes from the settling of
its dispute with Tasman Pulp, which
means that Tasman will not now go
ahead with its plans to compete on
the Australian market in liner board.
This is in exchange for APM buying
its pulp from Tasman (and Tasman
getting more of the Australian news-
print market, which has nothing to do
with APM, anyway).
APM is in a pretty tough industry
and is a pretty tough sort of company
itself. Provided there is continued
growth in demand, APM should get
the benefits not only of increased sales
but also of greater economies of opera-
tion as it now has sufficient capacity
for considerable expansion without re-
quiring further heavy capital invest-
ment. And the company is now begin-
ning to feel the real benefits of its
major investments in forests in recent
years which, until recently, had been
useful only as a tax deduction.
EVERYTHING is looking up at once
for Camelec Ltd., the Adelaide-based
maker of electrical cables and wiring
looms. The large increase in output
of motor-vehicles this year (the motor
industry takes 25 percent of Camelec’s
sales); the recovery in consumer spend-
ing on electrical applicances (this in-
dustry takes 35 percent of its sales);
and the continued strong level of build-
ing commencements (30 percent of
sales) all mean that Camelec should
have a good story to tell when it reports
shortly for the year that ended in June.
In addition, its production costs have
been reduced by lower copper prices.
Camelec’s earnings record has been
patchy in recent years, and in 1966-67
earning rate of 12 percent gave only
modest cover for the ten percent
dividend. But the interim report re-
vealed that earning rate had risen to
16 percent for the first half of 1967-68
following a 30 percent sales rise. And
when the company announced a de-
benture and share placement in April
to raise million, it expected to earn
about 15 percent in 1967-68 on the
enlarged capital. The coming result is
likely, at least, to maintain this, so that
the current price of around 56 cents for
the 50-cent shares, to provide a dividend
yield of a remarkably high 8.9 percent,
seems unreasonably low.


Mining
VAM PROFITS BY THE
BOOM-TO BUY MORE
MINES AND LEASES
INVESTORS BUILDING up their
holdings in mining shares have reaped
great benefits from the mineral boom
in the past six months (although it is
difficult to describe these profits as be-
ing earned from mining). One com-
pany, though, has used this boom to
considerable advantage in building up
its investments, not in mining shares
but in actual mines. The company is
VAM Limited. A year ago, it had a
capital of just under $700,000, while
at June last this figure had risen to
$l.B million. This expansion of capital
has been relatively small compared with
the money raised by the company, par-
ticularly since the beginning of the year.
The past six months have seen VAM
acquire varying interests in both base
metals and more exotic minerals and
it has raised the funds for these through
several premium issues, following
the buoyant market for its shares all
the way up to the current price of
$4.00. The effect of these issues to
shareholders and other vendors has
brought the company over $3 million
in funds during the year which ended
on the 30th June.
The actual progress of the company,
as reflected in its acquisitions over the
past few months, shows considerable
energy in the acquisition of mining
properties. Its first move was to take
up a 60 percent interest in Northern
Territory Minerals N.L., which was
formed in conjunction with Pioneer
Mines N.L. of Adelaide to develop
tungsten/bismuth deposits in the
Northern Territory. These deposits are
in an area worked in the past and the
company has high hopes of developing
a commercial operation in which high
bismuth grades will play a large part.
In February, the company purchased
the interests of Australian Development
N.L. in the Dugald River copper areas,
in which it already had a stake and
also bought Australian Development’s
seven percent interest in Nymagee
Mines Pty. Ltd. This was followed
fairly smartly, the following month,
with the purchase of New England
Antimony Mines N.L., from its former
owners, Consolidated Metal Products
Limited. This antimony mine has had
a bit of trouble in the past few years
due to the lack of adequate water, fol-
lowing on drought conditions. There is
a reasonable export market for the out-
put of the mine, should VAM be able
to provide adequate water.
In May, shares were issued to acquire
minority interests in copper leases north
of Cloncurry, where the company has
several small areas as well as a major
area ibeing prospected jointly with
Noranda Mines and Placer Develop-
ment. Later the same month, the com-
pany paid $350,000 for a 75 percent in-
terest in a turquoise mine. The mine is
situated close to the company’s other
interests near Hatches Creek in the
Northern Territory, and this deal also
included exploration areas of 140 sq.
miles in an adjacent position. The mine
has some reserves already and the
deposit is believed to be near the sur-
face, toeing the largest in Australia.
ViAM already has a gemstone mine with
its ownership of a chrysoprase deposit
in north Queensland, which has been
operating for some years, and for which
the company has high hopes of earning
considerable profits this year.
A particularly appropriate acquisi-
tion was made in June with the pur-
chase of a 60 percent interest in
Glindemann and Kitching (Holdings)
Pty. Ltd. This firm is a well-established
contract driller engaged in mineral ex-
Readers will no doubt have noticed
the obvious mistake made in adding
up the likely profit of the Peko
group in our last issue. The final
calculation indicated a figure of $3.7
million, equivalent to 34 cents per
share; the correct figures should have
been $5.3 million, equivalent to 43
cents per share.
ploration. During the same month, a
75 percent interest in Surveys and
Market Research Holdings Limited was
acquired, although the reason for this
acquisition has not so far been
apparent.
The new year started with two more
acquisitions in Queensland, the first a
66 percent interest in the Mammoth
Copper Mine and associated leases and
options over leases 70 miles north-
east of Mt. Isa. VAM already has a
mine at Mt. Oxide in the same area
and it is to build a treatment plant
to handle the ore produced by these
two mines. Mt. Isa Mines Limited has
offered to take 200 tons a week of
copper ore from the company’s Mt.
Oxide mine which has a fairly small
(200,000 tons) but rich reserve of
copper ore containing 10-11 percent
copper. The latest acquisition has been
a group of leases in the Chillagoe area
of Queensland which contains tin, tung-
sten, and bismuth.
The net result of these developments
so far is that the company next year
will have various small mines producing
about 500-600 tons per day, in total,
containing mostly copper but including
some tin, tungsten, and bismuth. The
main doubts in shareholders’ minds
must be on two scores. First, the
company has announced the measured,
rather than “guess-timated,” reserves of
only one of its areas (that of Mt.
Oxide); as it has valued its own shares
at a considerable premium, in acquiring
the various mines and leases mentioned
above, a list of deposits with proven ore
content would be of considerable value
in assessing the worth of its assets. The
second doubt which must be exercising
the minds of existing and prospective
shareholders is the diversity of the
company’s mining operations. The man-
agement problems involved in operating
the collection of relatively small mines
must be considerable.
The company’s exploration program
has grown considerably during the year.
In several of the purchases mentioned
above, the company has also acquired
prospecting leases as part of the deal—
notably in Queensland —but on its own
account VAM has an area of 768 sq.
miles in the Northern Territory, south
of Hatches Creek, where it will be
prospecting mainly for copper, uranium,
and phosphate. In the past couple of
years the company, in conjunction with
Noranda and Placer, has been evalua-
ting copper deposits in the Dugald
River, north of Mt. Isa, and so far
these areas have been estimated to con-
tain (at shallow depths) 4,500,000 tons
of 0.9 percent copper ore suitable for
leaching. In the same area, the com-
pany’s Palm Creek leases have shown
promising grades of 1.9—2.7 percent
copper on the surface, with mineralisa-
tion covering an area 5000 ft. by 60ft.
Various other exploration leases are
held for areas likely to contain copper,
gold, tin, etc., but the main chance for
the company seems to lie in its 49
percent interest in a 600 sq. mile tem-
porary reserve near Wiluna in
Western Australia. In January this year,
a nickeliferous ultrabasic sill had been
defined some 1200 ft. wide and over
six miles long, and at that stage limits
had not been reached. This was the
result of geophysical and geochemical
exploration and diamond-drilling com-
menced on the 30th January. So
far, no progress report has been re-
leased by Delhi (Australian) Petroleum
Ltd. which is the majority holder of
this lease with 51 percent. This reti-
cence is interesting in view of the
announcements made a short while ago
by Anaconda to its American share-
holders, which contain the first (but
rather delayed) mention of the rich
nickel intersections the company had
encountered in the lease it shares with
CRA and New Broken Hill, near
Widgemooltha near the southern part
of Western Australia.
Wiluna is the site of many former
goldmines and VAM has been inves-
tigating the potential of treating tail-
ings from the old ore dumps. It is
believed that over one million tons
of ore assaying five dwts. per ton have
been proved up, although tailings like
these would probably present more
treatment problems than ore fresh from
a mine. The only existing company
still carrying on operations in the area
is Hill 50 Gold N.L. and this has led
to some speculation concerning a pos-
sible joint operation between the two
companies.


A word to businessmen who still toil
after hours to handle figure work . .
Don't!
Instead, buy an NCR Accounting Machine
and see more of your kids.
5*
r
A
An NCR system puts an end to
those late nights spent bringing
your books up to date. In book-
keeping, as in so many phases
of modern business and indus-
try, mechanization is the key to
faster, more accurate results at
lower cost. For instance, with an
NCR Billing system it’s possible
to prepare an invoice (including
extension, sales tax and dis-
count calculations), post the
charge to the customer’s ledger
account and statement, and list
the item on the sales journal—
all in the one operation.
Accounts are always in balance
. . . month-end closing, bal-
ancing, and statement writing
are eliminated. And that’s only
one of the many accounting jobs
which NCR machines can
streamline. The cost? A lot less
than you might expect for such
a comprehensive accounting
machine. So don’t be a stranger
to your kids. Let an NCR system
eliminate those long hours you
spend over the books. Your local
NCR man can helpyou. Call him,
or write to us at NCR, Box 2626,
G.P.0., Sydney 2001.
NCR
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


WANTED
COMPANIES
WITH
ACCUMULATED
PROFIT
Trading or
non-trading
Immediate
cash settlement
can be arranged
L
LEVART
Pty. Ltd.
HOW TO PROFIT
FROM OPTIONS
If a share you are interested in
seems due for a rise then a Call
Option is the way to take advan-
tage of this situation. For a limited
outlay, that you know in advance,
you are in a position to profit from
your stand in the market. If you
are wrong and the share does not
rise as expected, or even falls in
value, you are not committed to
buy the share—you merely take no
further action. An Option is an
option not an agreement to
buy stock. This point and many
others are explained in our free,
educational brochure that’s yours
for the asking. Just call in, •
or use the coupon below.
VM
MONTGOMERY,
HUGHES PTY., LTD.
324 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE: 26 1831
18 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, 63-7020
Stock and Share Options
A member of Option Brokers Association
! Please send me a free brochure on
S Options
f
| Name
%
j Address
Security analysis
NO SAG IN
PROSPECTS FOR
HENDERSONS
SPRING-MAKING is still in many
ways a craft-style industry, reminding
me of the old days of the industrial
guilds. The basic method of teaching
is still passed on almost exclusively by
work application from master to
journeyman and apprentice (there are
only one or two technical courses in
this art anywhere in Australia).
Although automatic machinery is used
for most of the long production runs,
there is still artistry and real craftsman-
ship in the initial design of a spring
to allow for the stresses and strains
involved in the job at hand. The art
of spring-making seems to have emerged
over the centuries with leather springs,
cane springs, willow-wood springs, iron
springs, and finally to the many versions
of steel springs.
Springs of steel are everywhere, for
imparting motion, regulating move-
ment, or for lessening and preventing
shock; for example, in the door lock,
the desk telephone, ball-point pens
which flick open at a touch, on the
horn button and dipper switch of a
car, in the undercarriage suspension of
road vehicles, in ships and aircraft, in
mattresses and chairs. Springs' made
from steel wire come in three main
types; tension which operate by ex-
tending or stretching; compression
which close up or become shorter
when a load is applied; torsion which
apply a twisting movement when in
use, such as in a clockspring. Springs
are also made from either flat or
round bars of steel; from flat bars
emerge the laminated or leaf road
springs used in rear suspensions of
motor-cars and in front and rear sus-
pensions of trucks.
To glance at the production tech-
niques involved in laminated springs,
the flat steel bars are first cut to their
specified length, punched in the centre
so that upon assembly the centre bolt
can be inserted, point drawn allowing
the end of the leaf to be drawn or
tapered through heat treatment in a
furnace and then placed in a set of
eccentric rollers. Next comes the eye
roll (eyes in which bushes are placed
to attach to the motor-vehicle), after
which the spring goes through a tem-
perature controlled walking-beam type
of furnace, and then into a cambering
machine, which puts the camber into
the spring plate. Then follows temper-
ing in a temperature - controlled
tempering oven, and, after inspection,
wheelbrated, which involves passing
through a shot-peening machine, throw-
ing shot at a predetermined velocity
on to the spring plate and inducing a
surface hardness. After assembly, the
springs are checked for load-carrying
characteristics, painted, and packed.
James Kerr Henderson, born in
Edinburgh in 1852, came to Australia
in 1856 with his parents, and at the
age of 14, in 1866, was apprenticed to
spring-making in Melbourne. In 1875
he started his first venture in spring-
making at Collingwood (Melbourne)
and after experience in New Zealand,
commenced in 1892 another family-
owned spring business in Punt Road,
South Yarra (Melbourne), the origins
of the present-day Henderson’s Indus-
tries Ltd., which listed as a public
company in 1950.
The founder died in 1920 and the
business was taken over by his widow,
Elizabeth Henderson, and her five sons.
With the death of the last of the sons,
V. G. F. Henderson, at the age of 81
in 1966, the company is now in the
hands of the third-generation grandsons
who are now in their fifties and early
sixties: D. G. Henderson, the company
chairman; his cousin F. C. B. Hender-
son, the deputy chairman; and his
brother H. R. Henderson, who is works
director for the Melbourne factories.
Along with G. R. Cutts, R. E. Rebbeck,
and the finance director J. G. Hender-
son, who is a namesake but no relative,
these men are all executive directors
with a lifetime of working experience
in the spring-making business. The only
outside director, Mr. C. Collingwood,
is related fey marriage to the Henderson
family. The Henderson family which
now numbers about 100, control about
40 percent of the equity capital.
My understanding is that on a com-
position of the company turnover, car
seat springs would represent about 30
percent, laminated springs about 20 per-
cent, light springs about 15 percent,
heavy coil springs about 7 percent, and
others—consisting of furniture springs,
mattresses, die electric weldings, forg-
ings, flanges, caravan and trade axle
assemblies and .fittings, shock absorbers,
and jobbing engineering—about 28 per-
cent. The motor industry would absorb
over 50 percent of the total company
output, and about another 20 percent is
earmarked to the furniture trades. The
company has its main manufacturing
centre in Melbourne, where it operates
five factory units, and its production
areas also embrace Geelong and Riddell
(Victoria), Adelaide, and Sydney. Total
company workforce is in the vicinity of
1100.
Hendersons are by far the largest
spring-making complex in Australia,
although they are not No. 1 in under-
carriage springs—this title goes to the
privately owned National Springs group.
From its original base in Melbourne, the
company extended to Sydney in 1936,
and over the past 20 years acquired a
group of other spring-making companies
including Rebbecks of Adelaide in 1957
and F.R.S. Springs, Melbourne and
Sydney in 1959. Berg Hydraulics, mak-
ing the Newton shock absorber under


Legal Notice
SCHEDULE
FRANCIS GORDON ROOK formerly
of C/- Navy Department, Navy Office,
Canberra, A.C.T. TAKE NOTICE that
ISABELLE AMY ROOK has instituted
proceedings in the Supreme Court of
Victoria at Ballarat in Suit No. D 12,
of 1968 seeking a dissolution of her
marriage to you on the ground of
desertion or alternatively separation
and custody of the children of the
marriage and costs. UNLESS you file
an answer in the Office of the Deputy
Registrar Supreme Court, Ballarat, by
the 27th of August, 1968, the action
may proceed in your absence.
BYRNE JONES & TORNEY.
There's the Bank of Ceylon and ...
SUNNY BEACHES AND COOL MOUNTAIN
WATERFALLS TOO!
a**'
ip«
V*
It?/*
I
■
When you come to Ceylon on business,
you will also enjoy the pleasures of a
tropical island-paradise with its cool
mountain springs tod! Set like a pearl
in the sapphire blue waters of the Indian
Ocean, Ceylon will enchant you with its
warm golden beaches where you can
swim, surf and skin dive, and its blue
misty mountains where you can fish,
hunt or play golf—all within a couple
of hours’ travelling distance.
And in this island-paradise, the Bank of
Ceylon offers you a modern and up-to-
date banking service including Intelli-
gence Reports, Credit Information,
financing of exports and imports, and
svery type of foreign exchange trans-
action.
In your trade relations with Ceylon, you
can depend on the Bank of Ceylon—the
bank that controls over half of Ceylon’s
bank deposits.
qp£f£
Qlo^
BANK OF CEYLON
LARGEST BANK IN CEYLON
LONDON OFFICE:
48-54, Moorgate,
LONDON E.C.2.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, COLOMBO 1.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, COLOMBO 1.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
FIRST CHARGE DERENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM
12 MONTHS 6%
9 MONTHS 51/2%
6 MONTHS 5%
3 MONTHS 4V2%
LONG TERM
10 YEARS 71/2%
8-9 YEARS 71/4%
6-7 YEARS 7%
5 YEARS 7%
4 YEARS 63^%
3 YEARS 6'/2%
2 YEARS 61/4%
PAID UP CAPITAL $25,000,000
Prospectus and application form avail-
able from:
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK
EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one
of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of Prospectus.
1411 A
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
English licence, came in to the group in
1949. Perhaps the most significant de-
velopment of the past few years was
the Australian licence granted to the
company to manufacture “No-Sag” car
and furniture seat and bedding springs
—this was in 1954.
Seat springs which form a very large
part of the company’s total business
are manufactured at four different fac-
tories, but with the main processing
centre at Geelong, which is the home
of the “No-Sag.” This plant covers all
facets of springs used in seat manufac-
ture such as coils, no-sag, or zig-zag
type springs and form-wire springs.
Wire-bed bases in conical springs, no-
sag, and mesh are made in three fac-
tories in Sydney, Adelaide, and Mel-
bourne, and the factory in Riddell
(Victoria) makes mattresses, pillows,
and upholstered divans, which are sold
only in Victoria. In addition to the
“No-Sag” brand, seat and furniture
products are sold under the “Hender-
son,” “Rebbeck,” “Restonic,” “Frisco,”
“Side Light” names.
A traditional company product is
spring washers, with which Hendersons
pioneered the Australian manufacture
in 1904, and today millions of washers
are produced each year.
The company statistics are:
Values $OOO
1963 1964 1965 1966 1967
Ordinary Capital 1982 1982 1982 1982 1982
Ord. S’holders’ Funds 4584 4774 5070 5341 5594
Total Assets 5748 5968 6435 6956 7159
Pre-Tax Profit 795 856 994 1038 1011
Earned For Ordinary 470 501 539 582 557
Ord. Dividends 268 297 297 297 317
Earned for Ordinary to
S’holders' Funds % 10 3 10 5 10 6 10 9 10 0
Dividend Pay-out
Ratio % 57 0 59 3 55.1 51 0 56.9
Earnings per share
(cents) 23.7 25 3 27.2 29.3 28 1
Dividends per share , „
(cents) 13 5 15.0 15 0 15 0 16 0
Share Price—High 7 80 7 30 7 00 3 68* 3.75
Low 6.45 6 40 6 05 3.40* 3.00
* $2 Par shares split to $1 units.
Over the past decade, there have
been three bonus issues; a 1:4 in Sep-
tember, 1959, which was repeated
again in July, 1960, and a 2:17 in
March, 1968. The 1968 interim released
in March reported a distinct increase
in sales and profit. Despite the upsurge
in imported cars, which reduce demand
for Australian components, a projected
market of over 430,000 motor vehicles
in 1967-68 suggests that business should
be buoyant this year.
Summary: At $2.40, the shares show
a dividend yield of 5.5 percent and the
price earnings ratio is 10.3. This is a
stock for long-term holders.


Qeneral
Qredits
LIMITED
$2,000,000
Debenture Stock
(Second Ranking)
(Ranking for payment of principal and
interest after Debenture Stock secured
by a Trust Deed dated 6th September,
1955, between the Company and The
Union-Fidelity Trustee Company of Aus-
tralia Limited.)
m
6 to 10 years
Other rates and terms available
Applications can only proceed on the
form enclosed with the Prospectus
which may be obtained from: —
• lan Potter & Co., Underwriters
• All recognized stockbrokers
• All branches of General Credits
• All branches of the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited
Qeneral
tjredits
LIMITED
277 William St., Melbourne, 3000
Ph. 60 0241
283 Clarence Street, Sydney, 2000
Ph. 29 3041 y
/
*
V 4679
Behind the
balance sheets
W. E. SMITH BENEFITS
IN A REVIVED
PACKAGING INDUSTRY
THE PACKAGING business is now r
well and truly out of the doldrums of
a few years ago, when over-expansion,
sluggish demand, and severe price-
cutting took the smiles of! most com-
panies’ profit-and-loss accounts. The
industry is now on a much sounder
basis; the price rebels have generally
come to heel. And the restoration of
peace between Australian Paper Manu-
facturers and Tasman Pulp on the
supply side has removed the threat of
further turmoil in the industry. Not
even the prospect of lower tariffs
against New Zealand packaging pro-
ducts, under the New Zealand-Australia
Free Trade Agreement, is likely to
bring any increase in competition.
One of the smaller companies now
benefiting from these improved condi-
tions and likely to benefit even more
as the industry continues to grow and
prosper is Sydney packager and
printer W. E. Smith Ltd., until recently
an ultra-conservative company, that is
now, with a new-look board, set on
going places.
A million expansion program
at its Croydon plant is now under way
that will double the productive capacity
of the packaging side of the business,
which now accounts for half the turn-
over. The company’s forward planning
is based on a doubling of output and
turnover in seven years.
Past accounts have new models of
reticence, but the 1968 accounts, due in
September (after a preliminary report
in late August), should be much more
informative, and the story told will be
more exciting to shareholders.
Last year directors mentioned a policy
of planned expansion, and that they
expected “with the proposed expansion
of factory and plant, to operate on a
higher volume of sales.” The footnote
to the accounts of $50,000 worth of
contracts for capital expenditure not
provided for gave no clue to the size
of the expansion program, which was
only announced with the interim report
last February, of improved sales and
profits.
Even with its recent state of remark-
able liquidity, $1.5 million, to be spent
on expansion, is a tall order for a
company whose paid capital, including
$lOO,OOO in preference shares, is only
$1,360,000. But current assets last year
exceeded current liabilities by $700,000,
giving a ratio of two to one, there was
over $300,000 in short-term deposits,
no overdraft, and only $347,000 in long-
term loans from the AMP. Cash flow
in the last year, for which accounts are
available, was $230,000.
Additional funds have since been
obtained from the AMP, and the com-
pany’s bankers have agreed to provide
accommodation as and when required.
W. E. Smith’s last expansion program
involved $240,000 (completed in 1962),
and this was financed by a one-for-two
par issue to shareholders in November,
1961, which raised $420,000. The rela-
tive size of the issue hacked the shares
back from that year’s top price of $1.50
to 90c during the rights trading. That
chastening experience may be influenc-
ing directors’ current reluctance to go
to the shareholders for funds this time.
It is extremely unlikely that they will
be called on for funds.
After those factory extensions six
years ago there was some production
loss, and delayed delivery of plant re-
tarded benefits, so that earning rate
slumped to 13.9 percent in 1963. The
company does not now envisage any
reduction in production at any time
during the construction of current
extensions to the factory.
The buildings should be completed
early in October, and the plant installed
and operational in November-
December. The packaging area will be
increased by 40,000 sq. ft. of plant
space.
Of the sli million, $430,000 will be
spent on buildings, $1,070,000 on plant,
the latter providing investment allow-
ance for tax purposes mainly in the
year just commenced. In 1967-68 the
company spent $170,000 on buildings,
$250,000 on plant, and apart from
about SIOO,OOO worth of expenditure
to be carried into 1970, all the balance
of the sl] million will be made in the
current financial year.
The company caters to all classes of
industry with its corrugated shipping
and display containers. The normal
growth rate in packaging has been 10
percent a year in the past four or five
years. The major contributing factor
for the growth since 1960 has been in
fruit and vegetable containers. With
representatives in the north and
western N.S.W. country areas, the com-
pany expects to be able to step up the
tempo of activity in the domestic fruit
business.
Packaging now accounts for about
2 percent of the country’s gross national
product, with paper holding some 39
percent of the market, metals 25 per-
cent, textiles and plastics about 9 per-
cent each, and glass 8 percent. The
various packaging materials used add
up to some 2001 b. per capita each year
with a value to the industry of $36 per
capita. Some idea of the scope for
growth is shown in the corresponding
U.S. figures of 5001 b. and S9O respect-
ively. And if U.S. trends are followed
it will be in paper that the major ex-
pansion will occur.
The other half of W. E. Smith’s
operations are also receiving attention.
Some $250,000 of the current expendi-


It's not true that due to lack of interest tomorrow
will be cancelled. Everyone is interested in
tomorrow its sVirouded promise, its looming
problems. That’s why ABC Radio has begun a weekly
scientific look at the future at 10.15 a.m. on
Saturdays on the Second Network. It’s called
The World Tomorrow. It’s factual and entertaining.
Another programme that makes ABC Radio different,
better. Tune to The World Tomorrow,
Saturday mornings at 10.15 on the
Second Network.
AU29.103.78
ture is being devoted to printing (job
printing and cartons, which account
for 25 percent of the company’s total
business). This is a much more com-
petitive field, for in the Sydney metro-
politan field alone there are 700
printers, whereas in corrugated packag-
ing there are only 12 to 14. It is neces-
sary to constantly review and upgrade
the printing side of the business, but the
scope for growth and profits is not
comparable with packaging.
Trading departments, calendars,
novelties, office systems, and stationery
represent 15 percent of total business.
A tenant on the top floor of the No. 2
factory provides rental income of
around $32,000, which has been suf-
ficient to cover the interest payable on
moneys borrowed for those previous
extensions.
In 1966-67 profits rose 18 percent
over the 1966 level, which was on a par
with 1964. In 1964-65 profits dropped
owing to withdrawal of orders with the
imminence of the changeover to deci-
mal currency, and can be considered
an explicable variation from the trend.
The 1967 results were sufficiently
encouraging to directors to recommend
an increase in dividend from 12| to 13-|
percent, including a bonus dividend of
1 percent. Although the interim divi-
dend in February, 1968, of 6J percent
did not endorse the higher rate, it is
possible that directors may even im-
prove on last year’s bonus dividend,
perhaps making a total payment of
14 percent for the year.
It should certainly have enough earn-
ings to do so; large tax benefits from
the expenditure of new plant should
assist the company to show the best
earning rate yet for the year to June 30,
1968.
There is understood to be no prospect
of heavy selling of shares from the
estates of the two deceased directors,
and the stock looks sound buying and
holding at $1.25, where the yield is 5.4
percent in income and 8.8 percent on
earnings.
For one consequence of shareholders
being bypassed in favor of borrowed
money, which is the most economical
means of financing, anyway, is that this
should help improve the earning rate,
enabling them to be recompensed with
higher dividends. But the full benefits
of the company’s latest expansion are
unlikely to be felt for a couple of
years. This is a good long-term
prospect.
June 30 11963 1964 1965 1966 1967
Working profit S’ooo 409 531 452 562 638
Depreciation s'ooo 92 113 117 122 122
Tax s'ooo 137 175 139 201 233
Net profit s'ooo 180 243 196 239 283
Earning rate % 13 9 18 9 15 2 18 8 22.1
D(Widen'd date % 12V 2 >l2>/ 2 12 1/2 12V2 131/2
Earnings to shareholders’
funds 85 10 4 83 98111
Current ratio 32 2 5 2.6 23 21
Fixed assets s'ooo 1758 1978 2046 1989 1947
Dividend yield (a) 4.1 4.6 5.7 6 6 7.4
'Price/earnings
ratio (a) 21.7 14 5 14 5 10 0 7 7
High price (b) 1.62 1.50 1 28 1.10 1.20
Low price (b) 1 28 1.20 .88 .85 1 82
(a) End of June.
(b) Calendar years 1968 range to date $1.25 to
$1.07. Current price $1.25, yielding 5.4% on
•income, 8.8% on earnings.


Current and planned exploratory oil drilling
WELL
ABROLHOS
ALLIANCE OIL GROUP
Thunda No. 1
(Planned)
(Planned)
AMALGAMATED
PETROLEUM
Matjara NlO. 1
Bukali No. 1
AUSTRALIAN OIL
AND GAS
Berkshire Park No. 1
BEACH PET.
Wilson Cliffs No. 1
BOC OF AUSTRALIA
Legendre No. 1
BHP-ESSO
Tuna A-l
Snapper A-l
Flounder A-l
EXOIL-TRANSOIL
Munyarai No. 1
INTERSTATE OIL
Purrumbete No. 1
MAGELLAN PETROLEUM
Tyler !No. 1
Ravensbourne No. 1
West Waterhouse
(Planned)
North-west Mereenie
(Planned)
OIL SEARCH
Ini No. 1
(Planned)
PHILLIPS AUST. OIL
Uramu No. 1-A
SANTOS-DELHI
Moomba No. 8
TIMOR
(Planned)
WAPET
Stokes Point
Whicher Range No. 1
McLarty Hills No. 1
JAPEX-AMPOL EX.
(Planned)
Location Progress depth Target depth
feet feet
Gun Island, off 1581 12,000
Geraldton, W.A.
25m. N.N.E. of 7673 8500
Chandos No. 1.
In Canaway area of 6000
Qld.
Offshore in Bonaparte n/a
Gulf, W.A.
Bm. offshore More- 1499 4500
ton Is., Qld.
4m. N. of Monto, 1368 3000
Qld.
4m. S.W. of Windsor, 1407 4000
N.S.W.
In Kidson-Amadeus 4450 13,200
Basin, W.A.
110 m. N.E. of Bar- 1110 12,000
row Is., W.A.
11m. N.E. of Marlin 8577 n/a
A-l.
32m. S.E. of Bairns- 6351 n/a
dale, Vic.
19m. offshore
10m. S. oif Tuna A-l 2600 n/a
12m. S.E. of Marlin
field
1 • ■
640 m. N.W. of Adel- 797 6500
aide, S.A.
9V2 m. S.S.E. of 1050
Camperdown, Vic,
N.E. of Gosse’s Bluff, 826 12,600
N .T.
29m. S.S.E. of 6680 8000
Blackall, Qld.
50m. W. of Alice 6100
Springs, N.T.
N.W. of Mereenie 5500
fields, W. of Alice
Springs.
Ini Island in Decep- " 10 000
tion Bay, off Papua.
200 m. N.W. of Port 7742 10,300
Moresby, 10m. off-
shore Papua.
Bm. N.W. of Moom- 8827 9350
ba 2.
Lake Frome area, 1984 2500
250 m. S. of Moomba,
S.A.
on Portuguese Timor. n / a
S.E. tip of Barrow 8150 7600
Is., W.A.
S. of Busselton, W.A. 14,801 15,000
150 m. S. of Derby, 7939 7600
in Canning Basin,
W.A.
Offshore from Proser- 3000 or
Pine, Qld. prior
basement
Report
Drilling of this stratigraphic well began June 22.
In sandstone at 1581 ft.
Spudded-in June 24. Surface coating measuring
133/s inches has been set and cemented to
1625 ft. In Triassic sandstone at 6943 ft. on
July 9. A drill stem test of the Triassic
section recovered watery mud, indicating no
effective permeability. 'lntersected sandstone with
traces of oil staining.
Will evaluate Triassic and Permian from which
oil obtained in the Alliance 'Chandos well.
Drill'ing deferred.
Scheduled for mid-Nov., 1968.
On a structure 10 m. by 3m., to be drilled
by E. W. Thornton. Spudded in June 25.
Spudded-in July 8. Surface casing run and
cemented to 400 ft. The first of three wells to
test the gas potential in the Sydney basin.
Drilling in sandstone formation at 1407 ft.
Spudded-in about June 6.
A stratigraphic test well being drilled by
Glomar Tasman. Spudded-in June 7. Mechanical
difficulties and adverse weather has accounted
for lost time.
Gas shows at about 4300 ft. Coring at 6659 ft.
Oil show evidenced on mud logging unit while
drilling below 6400 ft.; confirmed by coring.
Another oil show detected below 6300 ft. dur-
ing wireline formation tests which recovered gas,
condensate, an'd oil 9% i mdh casing set at
6951 ft.
Spudded-in May 9. Show of gas below about
4000 ft. Oil show in conventional core taken at
about 4540 ft. '133/ a inch casing set at 4775 ft.
Results of this wildcat may provide a due to
relationship of Tuna and Marlin structures.
A 36in. hole drilled to 546 ft. 30in. casing set
at 4919 ft. and '2O in. casing at 898 ft. Electric
logging completed, hole being reamed to larger
diameter, preparatory to setting 13 3 / a inch
casing.
Testing an anticline with closed area of 70
sq. miles. Spudded-in July 6. Had 13% inch
casing set to 797 ft.
Spudded-in July 14.
Spudded-in June 29. Considered a key well.
Running 13 3 / a inch casing.
Spudded-in June 25. In predominantly car-
bonaceous siltstone shale sequence of lower
Devonian age.
Test of Pacoota structure planned for mid-1968.
Planned for mid-1968.
First well under farmout agreement to spud-in
on July 29, 1968. Located 13m. from Phillips
Uramu No. 1-A offshore discovery well, be-
lieved to be cn same structure.
Plugged and suspended due to sudden onset of
trade winds just as testing for hydrocarbons
through a 7-inch casing due to begin. Un-
likely the hole can be re-entered until end of
year when trade-wind season over.
Gas flowed from interval 7767 to 7821 ft. at
rate of 2.4 cu. ft. a day from %in. choke,
5.33 m. cu. ft. from 7/16th in. choke and in
the interval 7835 to 7908 ft. at rate of 3.2 m.
cu, ft. from %in. choke, and 7.5 m. cu. ft.
from 7/16th in. choke. Results of drilling and
coring the Upper Permian section so far indi-
cate that approx. 100 ft. of productive sand-
stone is present within a gross interval of 236 ft.
A test of interval 7911 ft. to 8013 ft. flowed gas
on a 7-16 in. choke at 2.1 m. cu. ft. a day.
Drill stem test over interval 8681 to 8827 ft.
produced gas at rate too small to measure.
First of four shallow stratigraphic test wells
in a two-month program to cost 5160,000, using
mobile drilling rig.
Before end of 1968.
Plugged back to evaluate Windaiia sand.
Reached total depth of Bdsoft.
Spudded-in around March 20. Shows of gas
during drilling and coring operations below
13,000 ft. Drilled to 13,880 ft. and electric logs
run. Hiole opened out to 0.23/4 inoh diameter
at 8006 ft.
Spudded-in May 14, »n hard formation at
7304 ft.
Initial well must be drilled before March 31,
1969.
Interests
BP Aust. (operator) 50%;
Abrolhos 50%.
Alliance Pet. 50%; AOD 50%.
(Subject to 12% carried inter-
est to L. H. Smart Oil Expl.)
As above.
Arco (operator) with Canadian
Superior aod Aust. Superior
52%; Alliance 10%; AOD 18%;
other (unnamed) 20%.
Amalgamated Pet. (operator)
50'%; Sumray DX Oil Co;
25%; Phillips Aust. O ill Co.
25%; subject to -an over-riding
royalty of 3%% to Qld. Ameri-
can Oil Co. and 11/4% to
Seneca Oil C'o.
AOG 100%.
Aust. Aquitaine (under farm-
out) 75%; Beach Pet. 15%:
General Exploration of Can-
ada 10%.
Burma'h (operator) 16 2-3rd%;
Shell 16 2-3rd%; California
Asiatic 16 2-3rd%; Woodside
25%; Mid-Eastern 8 EL-3rd%;
BP 16 2-3rd%.
Esso * 50%; BHP subsidiary.
Hematite Pty. 50%.
As above.
As above.
Continental (operator) 25%;
Exoil 35%; Transoil 15%; Aust.
Sun Oil 25%.
Interstate is operator.
Shell Dev. 50%: Frome (Mobil
BP Interstate) 50%.
Magellan Pet. Aust. 39.111%;
Magellan Pet. Corpor. 12.23%;
United Canso 22%; Southern
Pacific 10%; Freeport 8 l-3rd%;
Farmout 8 l-3rd%.
Magellan Pet. Aust. 34%;
Sthn. Pacific Pet. 7.5%; Calif.
Asiatic Oil 25%; United Canso
8.5%; Texaco Overseas Pet.
25%.
Magellan 63 l-3rd%; Southern
Pacific 20%; Freeport 8 l-3rd%;
Farmout Drillers 8 l-3ird%.
United Canso 871/2%; Southern
Pacific 121/2%.
Esso (operator) will be assigned
50% on completion of 4 ex-
ploratory wells costing s6m.
Aust. Pet. Co. (BP, Mobil, Oil
Search) 50%.
Phillips (operator); Sunray ' DX
Oil; Arco; Canadian Superior;
Aust. Superior.
Santos 50%; Delhi Aust. 50%.
Timor Oil 100%
Wapet partners; Ampol Exp.
1-71 h; Shell 2-7ths; Standard
Oil 2-7ths: Texaco 2-7ths.
Wapet 50%; Union Oil Dev.
(on farmout) 50%.
Wapet 50%; French Pet. (on
farmout) 50%.
On completion Japex will own
50% undivided interest with
Ampol Exp. 50%.
NOTES:
area C untM August AA ° 25% ’ AF ° Papuan A P inai P' 12y 2 %; Associated Continental 121/2%; Interstate 15%; H. C. Sleigh 10%. Drilling suspended in Roma
Abrolhos: Hawkestone Oil, which is a substantial shareholder, wil'l seek listing and change its name to Hawkestone Minerals Ltd. Shareholders will be asked for extra
capital at an early date, 'Uomgreaoh holds 46.8 percent, of Hawkestone.
AOG: Par issue two-fior-seven payable 50c 'in full on August 19, 58% for oil exploration and 42% for mineral exploration, so 36c in call is tax-deductible.
Timor: One-for-five issue to raise 51.5 m. for oil exploration in Timor and mineral prospecting in W.A., to shareholders registered July 19. Holders of Timor
options havie converted to 2 million shares ahead of the issue: Exoil and Transoil taking up total entitlement of 300,000 shares. Amalgamated Pet., H. C. Sleigh
and Petroleum Securities 500,000 each, International Oils Exploration 200,000. Mid-Eastern has so far not exercised its options.
Transoil: Forfeited share sale July 31.
Longreach: Possible new public company to conduct its mineral exploration activities.
Oil Search: Has 50% interest !in Australasian Petroleum Co.
Magellan: One-for-five issue at 52.50, to shareholders registered on August 9 will raise $3 million.


What’s live television
got for you that
film hasn’t?
Graham
Kennedy*
Mike
Preston*
Honi van Frank
den Bosch* Wilson*
And a cast of many more experienced
salesmen on GTV9’s
In Melbourne Tonight—
World’s longest running live
television show*
9
(2584 nights at last
count)


THE ARTS
AND ENTERTAINMENT
Fair go for Atzmon and the
‘world’s sixth best orchestra’
Moshe Atzmon (right) has just left Sydney
after five months as guest conductor of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra. He is due to
return next March to begin a three-year con-
tract as the orchestra's chief conductor. While
away he will be guest conductor of orchestras
in nine countries.
by KENNETH ROBINS
IT IS A long time since Sir Eugene
Goossens promised to make the Sydney
Symphony the sixth best orchestra in
the world. This valiant credo had a
mixed reception, but the main reactions
were incredulous or ribald. There was,
of course, little unanimity in the award
of palms to the current six best, but
most people took Sir Eugene’s assur-
ance to mean an orchestra of top inter-
national standard, probably of the
calibre of the Cleveland Orchestra to-
day. There was a period when the
Sydney Orchestra did, indeed, come
close to the ideal which was prophesied.
Since that time, however, there has
been a deterioration in standards and
morale and mostly their playing has
showed it, although individuals can still
galvanise them into a semblance of
their former glory.
Moshe Atzmon has hardly had time
to make a lasting, or even an assessably
significant, impression on the orchestra.
Nevertheless, a few aspects have
emerged under his direction which may
be a guide to the future.
What has been obvious is the gulf
which exists between his approach to
classic and pre-classic music, which has
resulted in some extraordinarily pedes-
trian performances which verged, at
times, on the downright dull, and some
electrifying readings of the uninhibited
romantics and the flamboyant nation-
alists. How much of the latter excite-
ment was engendered by a less per-
nickety approach is hard to say, for
under Dixon there was a degree of
resentment stemming mainly from his
tendency to inhibit • the players by his
concern for detail. Obviously, Atzmon
has encouraged them to play their
heads off and this is all very well as
far as it goes.
In the Berlioz “Symphonie Fantas-
tique,” for example, the first fiddles
whipped into their notes in a manner
which was thrilling and the exquisitely
played cor anglais solo in this perform-
ance was also memorable. On the
strength of this performance alone, one
could have been excused for thinking"
Atzmon was the man for reinstituting
the golden age which ended with the
departure of Goossens.
But Josef Krips can work these
wonders with a couple of rehearsals, so
we must reserve our final judgment
until we can hear consistent and stylish
performances of Mozart and Beet-
hoven; for it is in these composers that
the quality of an orchestra is exposed.
Atzmon undoubtedly knows this; but he
has decided, probably rightly, that for
his initial restricted run the odd
bonanza was preferable to getting down
to the real business of moulding a sensi-
tive and precise instrument.
The greatest problem is bound to be
on a personal level, that of the rela-
tionship between conductor and players.
One gathers the climate is none too
pleasant at present; the players think
they are overworked, which they are,
and underpaid, which is also true, and
the ABC will have to do something
about these major issues very soon if
they are to stop the alarming drift of
their most sensitive players, or ensure
the recruitment of experienced and
talented musicians who also love music.
No conductor can hope to achieve any-
thing worth while with an orchestra
which is resentful of its conditions and
too tired to find joy in the job.
df the ABC makes membership of the
orchestra an attractive proposition, Mr.
Atzmon should be assured of a fair go,
for the spectacle of a waiting list of
able instrumentalists may give pause to,
without unduly inhibiting, the more
recalcitrant incumbents who are
inclined to regard demands for artistic
integrity in their playing as an assault
upon their rights.
Professional music-making is an area
where the time-honored antipodean
accolade of “she’ll do” will definitely
not do; not even a Klemperer or a von
Karajan could overcome an incubus of
this nature, and young Mr. Atzmon
would not be in the race. It is up to
the ABC to provide an atmosphere
where musicians are afforded the
dignity they deserve and the considera-
tion every artistic worker is entitled to
expect.
SHOCK VALUE
MUSIC/KENNETH ROBINS
TAMAS VASARY’S first recital in the
Sydney Town Hall stirred up plenty
of controversy in the audience. On
paper the program was formidable: the
longest and probably the most uncom-
promising of the Beethoven Piano
Sonatas, the “Hammerklavier,” and the
“Goldberg Variations” of Bach. The
controversy was sparked off not by the
programming however, at least not
initially, but by a few unique features
in its presentation.
Beethoven is not a comfortable com-
poser during his last period, except in
pockets, and few people are prepared to
follow him into the dark intellectual
cosmos from which these disturbing
works were born. No person who feels
disconcerted or intolerant when out of
his depth is likely to find the “Ham-
merklavier” his cup of tea; its episodic
sometimes superficially incongruous
elements, its lack of felicity and, what
one could almost call its arrogance, do
not command it to the complacent or
the genteel.
Vasary kicked off the opening state-
ment in a superbly arresting manner, if
a little faster than is customary. Any
fears that the audience may have had
that Mr. Vasary could not keep up the
tempo which he had inaugurated were
quickly dispelled, for he proceeded to
handle the most awkward technical
passages with tremendous elan. Apart
from the actual business of piano play-
ing he made the whole vast work a
logical musical utterance; the Prome-
thean defiance and visionary excursions
were given point and coherence.
I doubt if Beethoven ever wrote a
work more likely to alienate an audi-
ence than this one, and Vasary’s con-


troversial decision to repeat the titanic
fugue was a gesture worthy of the black-
browed prophet himself. Although
many must have welcomed the chance
to have another go at part of what is,
by virtue of its very length, a rarity in
the concert hall, there must have been
•others who were so wrung out by this
time that they wanted to unwind. How-
ever for some it was a fascinating
•experiment, and I must say it went
better the second time, which is high
praise for, on the first time round, it was
a remarkable tour de force.
If Bach is played in time and in tune
it is infinitely satisfying. No music
suffers less from transcription, for his
notes are so good that they could
survive a performance on the Wurlitzer
-organ. The “Goldberg Variations” are,
in many respects, closer to the style of
genuine pianoforte music than anything
•else Bach wrote.
My only quibble about this perform-
ance was what appeared to be a lack of
definition in the rhythm, always a diffi-
culty in complex polyphony. Admittedly
the bar line can impose a stultifying
rigidity on music of this type, but I feel
there is an intrinsic pulse which it is
dangerous to ignore and there were
times when this pulse was missing. The
astonishing velocity of some of the
variations could have contributed to
this loss of rhythmic underpinning. We
must be grateful to Mr. Vasary for the
privilege of hearing one of the two
greatest sets of variations for solo instru-
ment and a work which is one of the
glories of the late baroque.
DILUTED COMEDY
THEATRE/REX CRAMPHORNE
She Stoops to Conquer. Oliver Gold-
smith. Independent Theatre, Sydney.
IN “An Essay on the Theatre” (1772)
Goldsmith looks back from “the weep-
ing, sentimental comedy so much in
fashion at present” to the “laughing,
and even low, comedy which seems to
have been last exhibited by Vanbrugh.”
Under the impression that he was mak-
ing a determined bid for a return to
the sort of comedy that “excites our
laughter by ridiculously exhibiting the
vices and follies ... of mankind,”
Goldsmith wrote two plays, the second
of which has achieved a lasting repu-
tation in the English theatre.
In fact, what “She Stoops to Con-
quer” owed to Restoration comedy is
too diluted by the bourgeois decorum
and “sentiment” of its own period to be
readily recognisable at this distance.
“Vices and follies” are pretty marginal,
and what appears on stage is a situation
comedy with some period language
problems. What vitality it has, is drawn
entirely from the main plot situation
a case of mistaken social identity (host
taken for landlord).
In addition, the central character,
Marlow, has a strangely vivid and
realistic - seeming psychological/social
problem: he is unable to make love to
women of his own class. (“I don’t
know that I was ever familiarly
acquainted with a single modest woman
—except my mother. But among
females of another class, you know . . .”
“Ay, among them you are impudent
enough, of all conscience.”) Marlow,
wooing his host’s daughter as a bar-
maid (she “stooped to conquer”) re-
mains under his misconception until the
end of the play reveals his mistake
and solves his problem at the same time.
The rest of the plot Mrs. Hardcastle,
her lumpkin son, and the second pair
of lovers is really not very memor-
able, although Tony Lumpkin, Gold-
smith’s low-life figure, has a certain
amount of comic strength.
It must be said in its favor that this
production (Alexander Hay) avoids the
obvious fault—playing it in what we
have come to accept as conventional
Restoration style. On the other hand
it doesn’t have any particular virtue —
no great comic inventiveness and no
overall stylistic control: the rather cum-
bersome skeletal set is used to little pur-
pose, the costumes belong at a fancy-
dress ball, along with the silhouette
lighting effects at the beginnings of the
acts, the rag-bag of recorded baroque
Tony Thurbon and Aileen Britton in
“She Stoops to Conquer”
music is quite unsuitable and dispensed
in a very primitive manner.
The best thing about the production
is Kevin Miles’ Olivier-style perform-
ance as Marlow. He gives a detailed
physical treatment of the split in
Marlow’s character, varying from easy
masculine assurance among friends to
total discomfiture when faced by “the
most tremendous object of the whole
creation—a modest woman, dressed out
in all her finery.” The character is
probably better realised by Goldsmith
than any of his others, and this per-
formance helps to keep the whole thing
rolling. Aileen Britton makes a good
Mrs. Hardcastle (one of the three
people in the play who are interesting,
because they have faults—Marlow and
Lumpkin being the others) and
she and Tony Thurbon (Lumpkin) do
their best with the secondary plot.
Still, as a whole, this production does
little to explain why this harmless
oddity of a play should have achieved
quite so good a reputation.
INEPT SHAKESPEARE
THEATRE/ROBERT WARD
A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Theatre
62, Adelaide.
THEATRE 62 is to be admired for its
professional ambitions, staying power,
and general level of accomplishment,
when all else in Adelaide seems part
of an endless regression. But there is
one aspect of its operations which needs
strong critical censure its produc-
tions of Shakespeare.
Taking advantage, as is natural and
right, of the ready-made audiences from
schools, it has, over several years, pre-
sented a number of syllabus plays. They
have been uninspired productions. But
this month we have “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” and it is totally inept.
Strong words, perhaps, but in a city
where the daily critics go out of their
way to be kind and understanding, I
suspect producers and actors are begin-
ning to forget they work in an artistic-
ally hard, tough world.
There is a good economic excuse for
presenting plays to a guaranteed audi-
ence of uncomplaining, disconsolate,
intermittently amused students. But as
one of the few adults in the theatre, and
on all levels of conception, understand-
ing, design, and acting, I found “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream” a confused,
diffuse, and embarrassing production.
Dealing briefly with its elements, the
costumes are a potpourri of saccharine
elements more suited to operetta on ice.
Then, in action, there is that now-
regular Australian experience of seeing
and hearing how well our actors turn
verse into prose, prose into doggerel,
and stamp frantically on the faint resi-
due of meaning. Cutting across what I
suppose must be described as a tradi-
tional presentation, John Edmund gives
his mechanicals modern dust coats and
overalls, but there is absolutely no point
to this change of bad styles, as there is
none to their grossly slapstick perform-
ance. The kids laugh at this, though,
and so I suppose that at least they were
entertained, as they would be with a
Disney cartoon.
But the real fault in this production
is a lack of seriousness, intelligence, and
creative imagination. One day, in Aus-
tralia, we will no doubt have a company
that specialises in museum theatre.
Audiences will then rediscover what it
is that makes a classic classic. Perhaps
with “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” it
would give us an amusing re-interpreta-
tion in which the fairies are presented
as supernatural hippies, the mechani-
cals as organisation men, and the nobles
as politicians. Given a desire to find
meaning in museum theatre, it could
even happen at Theatre 62.


SHORT ON BACKGROUND
ART/ELWYN LYNN
Melanesian Art. Australian Museum,
Sydney.
INSTALLED permanently in the new
gallery at the Australian Museum,
William and College Street, Sydney, the
balanced show of Melanesian art should
be a loadstone for those who think that
art is not necessarily divorced from
function, meaning, and symbol, and for
those Adelaidians and Melburnians who
lament that their ethnographic art lies
buried in their museums’ cellars. This
collection of 282 pieces is a mere frac-
tion of what the Sydney Museum owns
—in 1964 the Miles expedition to New
Guinea alone brought back 2000
artifacts and indicates how badly
off museums and galleries are for
space. Melbourne’s new cultural centre
Is designed not to show all it has, and a
side-effect is that as space grows less a
resort to scholarly devices grows
stronger and the scholar replaces the
public-orientated curator.
The selection at the Australian
Museum and its catalogue are excel-
lent, though both seem a little fearful
of pedantry and pedagogy. Some of the
oddities and more disturbing works,
such as the basketry pig, the objects of
matted treefern roots, and the white-
spotted black crocodile with a head at
each end, seen at the N.S.W. Gallery’s
show of 367 Melanesian artifacts in
1966, are missing, and the presentation
is too blandly decorative, with every
object bathed in a warm, neutral glow.
A little cross-lighting, as the photo-
grapher for the catalogue adopted for
the pots and the shallow bas-relief of
the prehistoric pieces, would have
emphasised the theatrical quality of the
ritualistic pieces; after all, it’s not
always blazing noon in the tropics and
malaggan ceremonial carvings were left
in jungle huts to rot. The soft glow
homogenises the decorated skulls and a
curious Torres Strait island head, sport-
ing a serrated turtle-shell beard, with
quiet drums and protective shields.
The provenance of many pieces is
obscure, but we do see how alert the
Museum was in the 1880 s, buying from
sea captains who had visited northern
New Ireland, the Admiralty Islands,
and the Torres Strait islands (there
are rare pieces from the Strait, includ-
ing a Modigliani-like head bought in
1886): maybe as alert as museums in
Hanover, Bremen, and Hamburg in
buying from German traders. Not only
are tfcere aged and unique works, but
the selection also allows us to see what
has to be done in separating the Sepik
styles of Maprik, Yambon, Aibom, and
Washkuk and to appreciate the sharp
differentiations in style in the Bismark
Archipelago.
Questions that defy speculation are
those of the origins and purposes in
the differences between the graceful
arabesques of the Massim of the Tro-
briands and the frail bark cloth pieces
of the Gulf of Papua, where Orokolo
offers a Klee-like mask with an Arp
Torres Strait island head
design and suggests why modern artists
are attracted to such formal simplicity.
A beautifully symmetrical Massim
shield (bought in 1883), with a slight
but emphatic variation in design, is
as different from an obsessively incised,
dingy Sepik shield as Victor Pasmore
is from Antoni Tapies.
The Gulf of Papua and the Sepik
occasionally produce the more subdued,
relaxed, and less insistent designs; the
Gulf’s masks in black, shadowed white
and grey, and the wooden Sepik mask,
purchased in 1909, with the off-white
just allowing the ruddy lines about the
mouth and eyes to show through,
are masterpieces of the quietly ex-
pressive. Decoration is almost as un-
obtrusive on the huge Admiralty
Islands food bowl (54in. in diameter)
and on the Museum’s famous, grand
slit drum.
Maybe it’s a switch in taste that
makes the New Ireland painted and
plastered wood assemblages of fish,
birds, masks, and plaques in the
malaggan style, long collected in
Europe and America, look over-intricate
and more illustrational than symbolic;
the huge flying-fish with a small man
at its nose is, in comparison with
other objects, too superficially anec-
dotal. It almost seems to fail by break-
ing the rules of north New Ireland
art, yet among the pots, which are a
revelation, one from Aibom, with a most
unfunctional mask-handle, forbidding to
touch and sight, breaks the rules
of these coil pots most successfully. The
natural simplicity of the decoration on
other pots, especially that from
Espiritu Santo, is as delightful as in-
evitable, and some of the painted clay
figures on food bowls indicate how art
as ritual performance constantly routs
art as functionally utilitarian.
We need to know more about the
tribal fuctions of these artifacts; since
Malinowski found no Oedipus com-
plexes among the Trobrianders and
since Levi Strauss has tied interpreta-
tion to tribal environments and habits,
one is cautious of asking psychoanalytic
questions. But to label two large car-
vings from central New Ireland with
both breasts and penises as Human
Figures is rather evasive, especially
when the introduction to the catalogue
says that the art of “The Black
Islands” provides a visual link with
the metaphysical life of the Melane-
sians. The artifacts certainly suggest
a visual symbolism of metaphysical
beliefs on which even the most casual
visitor might want more information.
Bewildered ignorance is worse than an
overdose of pedagogy.
ENDURANCE TESTS
FILMS/BEVERLEY TIVEV
WE’RE ALWAYS reading publicity
releases about new films, wonderful
movies now in production, brilliant
stars signed for marvellous roles. What
happens after that? Many of them are
actually completed, exhibited, and re-
viewed overseas. (Whatever became of
“Fahrenheit 451,” by the way?) But
if you want to go to a five o’clock
session in Sydney and look down the
movie ads, you’re likely to find yourself
stuck with “Gone With The Wind,”
“Zulu,” or “Alfie.”
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, once the most
productive and prosperous studio in
Hollywood, is relying heavily on revivals
these days in Australia at any rate.
They’ve finally pensioned off that dear
old double bill of “Blossoms In The
Dust” and “Waterloo Bridge” they
must surely have been worn out —•
but the Golden Operettas still have a
spark of life left in them. “Raintree
County” has been brought back
well, it does star Elizabeth Taylor, who
manages to keep well in the news
and “Doctor Zhivago” keeps turning up
all the time.
Of course, the Metro theatres aren’t
the only ones. The mileage that’s been
got out of “Irma La Douce” and “The
Magnificent Seven”! And “Broken
Lance” at one stage bade fair to keep
the drive-ins going, with the help of
“They’re A Weird Mob.” Some curious
revivals may, of course, be explained
by the fact that the movie is just about
to be sold for television and the dis-
tributors are squeezing out the last
drops.
Sometimes, bewildering double
features occur—this week the Town
Theatre in Sydney is showing “Two
For The Road” and “Modesty
Blaise.” Even if you liked them
both, they’re films of totally dif-
ferent mood, and you’d have to 'be
feeling remarkably relaxed and tolerant


fctjatt
Wl6®6 02/137
add a living symbol
of perfection to your life
You add a new dimension to
your entertaining with
Waterford Crystal. Its un-
matched beauty and eleg-
ance combine with invest-
ment in pride and affection
in the homes of Australians
for whom hand-made per-
fection is not defined by
price.
Selected stores throughout
Australia proudly feature
the Waterford drink suites,
decanters, Jugs, bowls, vases
and candlesticks. (Illust:
Colleen, one of the newest
Waterford designs.)
Aust. Agents: Peter Marich
& Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adel-
aide, Perth.
to like them both at once. Still, they
don’t quite manage the magnificent
schizophrenia of my favorite double
feature “Heidi” and “Decameron
Nights” although ABC radio did its
best to top this by its recent coupling
in a choral music program of Faure’s
“Requiem” and Orff’s “Carmina
Burana.”
But if you’re after a new movie, the
choice is limited. “Oh, Dad, Poor Dad”
is an overwrought screen version of
Arthur Kopit’s play, interesting but not
particularly pleasant, with Rosalind
Russell overdressed and overacting as
the cannibal mother, and Robert Morse
far too sharp and knowing for the role
of the victim-son.
Or there’s “The Secret War of Harry
Frigg,” which has a certain interest in
being seen soon after “Cool Hand
Luke,” as you can study Paul Newman
at his worst as well as his best within
a matter of days. Newman should
never attempt comedy, for which he
has no flair; his only idea of making
Harry Frigg a comic character is to
adopt a peculiar method of walking.
This method works when practised 'by
Groucho Marx, but Paul Newman
doesn’t seem to have the secret.
Fortunately, he forgets about this
after a while and plays the role more
or less straight; and there are some
more adept comic actors around to
beep things going, though they’re
occasionally required to work too
obviously hard at it. Still, “Harry
Frigg” passes an evening painlessly
enough. Otherwise assuming, as I
do, that you’ve seen “In The Heat Of
The Night,” “To Sir With Love,”
“Camelot,” and the rest of the estab-
lished long runners —you’ll have to
revisit “The Student Prince” “Deep
In* My Heart, Dear” is a very pretty
song or go and see “The Sound Of
Music” for the fifteenth time. Appar-
ently lots of people do, after all.
FAMILIAR CORNERS
TELEVISION/DENIS O'BRIEN
LAST week’s announcement of staff
additions to the “Four Corners” unit
coincided with reports of another cir-
cumstance familiar to its history—one
of its programs had trodden on sensi-
tivities, and protests were in the air.
It has come to seem as if people are
constantly leaving or joining “Four
Corners” and that the program is
beleaguered by controversy. The latest
scrap for its scrapbook of misunder-
standings originates in the N.S.W. town
of Woolgoolga where some residents
are complaining that the unit turned its
coverage of the opening of a Sikh
temple into a racial discrimination issue.
At least it’s an accusation not before
fired at “Four Corners.”
The heartening thing is that despite
its scars and crises the program survives.
For all its blunders, fallibilities and
naive errors of editorial judgment,
“Four Corners” still gives more con-
sistent significance to Australian
public affairs programming than com-
petitors which have grown up around
it. Sadly, though, it is no longer the
compelling program it was when Bob
Raymond gave it style and Michael
Charlton lent it stature and presence.
Successive producers and anchormen
have either wilted under the pressures
of criticism or just haven’t had the
same sharp-edged talent.
Sam Lipski, its present executive pro-
ducer, is not giving us a “Four
Corners” of a sort we came to expect
and appreciate under Raymond-
Charlton, although he does seem to be
developing an almost literary style of
television in which the words clamor
for attention more than the pictures and
which, once the viewer has adjusted
his senses, helps the program to become
more than just another piece of
transient television.
The additions to Lipski’s staff prob-
ably will bring a return to a more
familiar form, inasmuch as the man-
power will give the program the mobil-
ity it has lately been lacking. John
Temple, an Adelaide journalist with
considerable on-camera experience in
South Australia, comes in as reporter-
anchorman and the fellow who will
handle most of the studio discussions;
Wallace Crouch, a Sydney journalist,
joins the staff as an associate producer
largely responsible for research and pre-
planning but making occasional on-
camera appearances as a reporter-
interviewer.
“Four Corners” has badly been need-
ing a front-man (it’s still difficult to
think of it without Michael Charlton),
but more importantly it has needed
journalistic staff to provide it with more
content of its own origin. With Richard
Oxenburgh’s departure last week for a
two-months’ assignment in the United
States and Britain, the program’s effec-
tive home-based reporting strength has
been reduced by a third. Even though
the unit is counting on four or five
substantial contributions from Oxen-
burgh while he’s away, his absence will
strain Lipski’s remaining resources. John
Penlington and Jim Downes are left,
but every time Penlington is anchored
to the studio for panel discussions a lot
of the Australian field work has to
suffer.
The future of “Four Corners,”
though, still seems hazy. Now that “This
Day Tonight” has taken over the
magazine-style reporting of current
affairs, “Corners” is virtually left with
a clear field to examine people, places,
and issues with more depth and sig-
nificance. Whether it needs to do this
within a format built for an entirely
different style of program and whether
it might not be better for it to assume
a different name and style are questions
that are likely to be decided within the
ABC before the end of the year.


Scholarships
?toTTo
k/M
All Saints 1 College
Bathurst
Day Boy and Boarder Scholarships
are available for boys desiring to
enter Forms I, II and V.
The value of all boarding scholar-
ships is half fees.
An examination for Form I candi-
dates will be held at the school and
at other centres on Saturday,
September, 28th.
For information and entry forms
please contact: The Headmaster,
All Saints' College,
BATHURST, 2795.
Phone 3265, 4681.
Applications close 10th August.
SPRING
VACATION
SCHOOL
August 28 to September 4
at
BATHURST TEACHERS’
COLLEGE
Courses in
• PRACTICAL ASTRONOMY
• GEOLOGY
• AUSTRALIA’S RESOURCES
• BACKGROUND TO WORLD
AFFAIRS
• PAINTING AND ALLIED
ARTS
• WATER COLOUR PAINTING
• PLAY PRODUCTION
• CREATIVE WRITING
FEE, $44, includes accommodation,
tuition, and excursions.
Arranged by W.E.A. and Depart-
ment of Adult Education, University
of Sydney.
ENROLMENTS CLOSE
AVGUST 1
Enquiries to
General Secretary, W.E.A.
52 Margaret Street,
SYDNEY, 2000.
Phone 29-2222
Communicating
BEGGING FOR A BEGGAR?
DR. COOMBS’ Australian Council for
the Arts has had only one meeting and
will not have any funds until after next
month’s Budget. However, it seems
that, thanks to the vigilance of public
service authorities, an eye is being kept
on economies. The position of executive
director, shortly to be advertised, will
carry a salary of about $8500.
This is to do a job which needs
administrative skills, knowledge of how
to subsidise the arts and how to keep
artistic people happy, how to lobby
in Canberra, and how to mediate be-
tween national and local interests. The
salary to be offered is less than the
$9000 (“or more for an outstanding
candidate”) which the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment offered four years ago for an
Opera House manager and at which
price they, of course, failed to find one.
There is no possibility that there is
a first-rate, or even a second-rate, can-
didate for the Australian Council job
on offer at that price. The only hope
is that the Council does not settle for
•third-rate.
TIME ON FILM
MELBOURNE photographer Paul Cox
is about to release his latest under-
ground movie “Time Past.” Cox, who
thinks poetry and film are closely
related, has used what he terms “a
heavy poetic voice” as part of the struc-
ture of the film. He says the idea was
derived from Eliot’s “Four Quartets,”
but the poetry is his own. At present
doing the tedious job of matching
sound effects with each frame of the
15-minute black and white film, Cox
says he has been greatly encouraged by
Sydney reaction to his last film,
“Matuta.”
“Time Past” explores the element of
time as a young woman returns to a
place that no longer exists in reality.
She is trapped and pursued by time
and memory in a deserted, dilapidated
building. Cox provided the money for
the film himself, but was helped by
friends who are full-time photographers
and television studio technicians. Not
expecting to make money from “Time
Past,” Cox will return to the still
photography, which has won him sev-
eral prizes, in order to make the money
to stake his next movie.
WHAT WAS IT?
IN THE LAST week of its some-
what abbreviated Sydney season,
“2001 — a Space Odyssey” must by
now have entirely ceased to attract the
sort of audience that came out saying
“It’s not much of a story . . . what
happened in the end?” This leaves the
Plaza to those attracted by the wide-
spread discussion of the film’s various
intellectual levels. Interpreting “2001” is
suddenly the in-game for groups rang-
ing from nuns (“ ‘2001’ is a religious
and, specifically, a Christian film”) to
teeny-boppers (“groovy 1 '), although
local critics found it somewhere
between “obvious” and “incomprehen-
sible.”
Critics overseas have found it far
more interesting, and MGM (Aus-
tralia), in an effort to steer the film
toward its proper market, bought a
full page of the “Sydney Morning
Herald” to quote a “Christian Science
Monitor” critic’s detailed interpretation.
THE HELPING HAND
ST. MARTIN’S theatre, Melbourne,
has been refused a subsidy by the Vic-
torian Government, the Treasury point-
ing out that the Government has “no
policy of subsidising professional
theatre.” We hope this does not imply
that it has a policy of subsidising ama-
teur theatre.
CULTURE—NORTH SHORE STYLE
THAT UBIQUITOUS word culture
crops up in the strangest places. The
directors of one of Sydney’s vast shop-
ping complexes are seeking “a cultural
adviser,” so that North Shore residents
can look forward to purchasing their
cultural needs along with their detergent
during the afternoon shopping-trip.
The directors of Westfield Develop-
ment Corporation have already received
applications from “art teachers, public
relations people, two or three house-
wives, and a couple of gentlemen” who
all fancy themselves in the role of
Hornsby shopping centre’s entrepreneur.
But the final choice will be left to “an
impartial panel made up of three people
who are leaders of Sydney’s cultural
community.” Westfield’s company man-
ager, Mr. John Biro, is not saying
who’s on the panel, because they
haven’t accepted yet.
The job of cultural adviser is visua-
lised as a part-time one at present, but
as Mr. Biro says, “People ask me how
far can we carry it, how far can art
go with the sale of groceries, and I have
to say I don’t know yet.”
The cultural adviser’s job will be
to avoid a total takeover of the audi-
torium by fashion shows run by charit-
able organisations. “These organisations
are very close to our heart,” says Mr.
Biro, “and we like to encourage them,
but the idea of fund-raising things all
the time doesn’t exactly fit in with the
thought of a cultural centre. We are
thinking of something a little more on
the educational side.” Amen.
Compiled by Denis O’Brien. Contribu-
tors: Patricia Rolfe, Richard Cameron,
Rex Cramphorne and Sandra Hall.


Building a
new ballet
IN A BLEAK and spartan rehearsal
studio in Fitzroy, Melbourne, a new
ballet takes shape. Sir Robert Help-
mann—now puckish, now imperious—
directs dancers of the Australian Ballet
in choreography he has devised to music
by Peter Sculthorpe. The ballet, “Sun
Music,” is the latest major Australian
work to be added to the company’s
repertoire and will have its world
premiere performance in Sydney on
August 2 —the opening night of the
Australian Ballet’s 1968 season.
Sculthorpe’s music already has been
successfully performed as a concert
work in Australia, Britain, and Canada;
now, rearranged for Helpmann’s choreo-
graphy and with costumes and stage
designs by painter Kenneth Rowell, it
becomes part of a symbolic ballet being
awaited by balletomanes with eager
expectancy.
Sir Robert has dedicated the work to
Dame Zara Holt. It is in five move-
ments —The— Soil, Mirage, Growth,
Energy, and Destruction—and observers
at rehearsal have said it is capable of
provoking a rare level of excitement.
“Sun Music” is one of the .three new
works being contributed for the Aus-
tralian Ballet’s 1968 season. The others
are by the company’s principal dancer,
Garth Welch (a work set to Prokofiev’s
Third Concerto), and by American
choreographer John Butler. During the
season the company also will present
Helpmann’s “Elektra,” “Swan Lake”
(Act Two), Balanchine’s “Ballet
Imperial,” and Peggy van Praagh’s pro-
duction of “Giselle.”
DENIS O’BRIEN
PHOTOGRAPHY BY ROBERT WARD
Symbolically dramatic point of “Sun
Music,” a new ballet by Sir Robert Help-
mann to Peter Sculthorpe’s music, being
rehearsed in Melbourne
Opening night will bring its special
worries; for Sir Robert Helpmann, those
of rehearsal are enough now
Josephine Jason, 22, chosen as the
principal dancer in “Sun Music,” by Sir
Robert Helpmann
Momentarily dubious, choreographer Help-
mann at rehearsals
Members of the corps de ballet rest during rehearsal, but keep their eyes alert


Books
A STUDY OF GENIUS
AS A MAGNIFICENTLY
HORRIBLE OLD ROGUE
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Tolstoy. Henri Troyat. W. H. Allen.
$11.70.
TOLSTOY SEEMS not so much to
have been one man as a whole tribe,
his rather ugly body a battlefield for
dozens of contradictory people, all hat-
ing each other, all waging war against
each other, all fighting for supremacy,
and all suffering. There was the titled
noble who would sooner have been a
peasant (in theory, anyway); the
agnostic who almost founded a new
religion; the pacifist who was an enlisted
soldier decorated for bravery; the sensu-
alist who preached chastity even in
marriage and fathered 14 children, in-
cluding one illegitimate; the convinced
vegetarian who went hunting for
pleasure; the ardent haymaking farmer
who at times thought “scribbling” con-
temptuous; the author of “The Kreutzer
Sonata” who disliked Beethoven; the
great artist who finally came to
condemn all works of art as artifice’;
and so on.
In fact, Henri Troyat’s tremendous
achievement in this biography to end all
biographies, this triumph of titans and
trivia, is to have balanced the sublime
against the slightly ridiculous, the
white-hot obsession of the creative
genius against the maddening egotis-
tical human, always keeping the right
proportions between the two. He
neither prostrates himself in worship
before the great Slavonic god nor does
he pause to deride the many weaknesses
of the complex part-time Russian-style
Lear.
This volume takes in every moment
of Tolstoy’s existence, day by day, hour
by hour, from before his first breath in
1828 until after his last—B2 years and
some 760 colorful, closely packed pages
later. The reader has the sensation of
actually being admitted into the seeth-
ing turmoil, the constant state of crisis
that was life on the family seat of
Yasnaya Polyana (Ash Glade) sur-
rounded by hordes of serfs who viewed
with suspicion their lord’s early pioneer-
ing efforts to free them, the muzhik
children he was trying to educate with
an experimental come-as-you-like
school, the multitudes of house-servants,
relatives, and general hangers-on. It is
a mammoth, wide-screen masterpiece
that could have been written as a novel
by Tolstoy himself.
In fact, much of it is by Tolstoy,
culled and quoted from all over the
place. There is not a single imaginary
piece of dialogue or suggested thought-
process (and no need, for once), because
Tolstoy documented everything, not
only in his public “private” diaries, in
which no sniffle or stomach-upset, no
tiff, no do-it-yourself psychological
analysis seems to have gone unrecorded,
but also in his fiction, which is full of
real events from his own life, often
related without much attempt at dis-
guise. Of course, all novelists write
about themselves and those they know,
in one form or another, hence those
“any resemblance is purely coinci-
dental” clauses; but the final result is
usually so sublimated and so unrecog-
nisable that even the models never
guess . . . fortunately, for otherwise the
libel suits would still be keeping bar-
risters in briefs after the last trump has
sounded.
But Tolstoy made his characters so
true to life that at one time spot-the-
person seems to have been a sort of
family sport. Natasha in “War and
Peace” is his wife’s younger sister, the
wounded Prince Andrey’s moments of
enlightenment at Austerlitz and Boro-
dino are his own moments of revelation
experienced on another battleground,
the wedded bliss of Kitty and Levin and
the birth of their child in “Anna Kar-
enina” are lifted straight from his early
years of marriage, and so on. Henri
Troyat draws these comparisons and
deals more with the personal side than
most previous biographers, probably be-
cause the writer, as monument alone,
has been exhaustively documented
already. He allows the reader to be
present at the second of artistic
creation, at the conception, the birth-
pangs, at the many operations and
painful amputations without which no
new work by Tolstoy was ever let loose
on the world.
The biographer skilfully contrasts
Dostoevsky’s more imaginative mysti-
cism with Tolstoy’s fanatical realism,
Dostoevsky’s transfiguration with
Tolstoy’s infinite attention to detail.
He shows Tolstoy as a sort of method-
writer, delineating a whole personality
by the placing of a button, the curve
of a shoulder, the depth of a velvet
ribbon, always shading (one of his
favorite words) so that no individual
was painted as all black or as all white,
but in an exact blend of both.
The story of the ups and downs of
Tolstoy’s marriage makes sense for the
first time, and if Troyat cannot help
revealing a slight bias in favor of the
much-maligned, faithful wife through-
out the demented, hysterical quarrels
that usually ended in Sonya’s mock
suicide attempts —sometimes railway-
bound like Anna K., sometimes river-
ward like some near-naked Ophelia—
it is because the weight of evidence
falls on her side. Sonya, too, kept a
diary. Indeed, the partnership would
possibly have run a good deal more
smoothly if both parties had not used
these pieces of semi-public property to
score off each other and state things
better left unsaid.
However, basically, the main trouble
was probably rooted in a physical in-
compatibility. Tolstoy was oversexed,
almost a rapist born, and incapable of
genuine affection for anyone but him-
Left, Tolstoy in 1868, when writing
“War and Peace”; right, with Chekhov
(L.) in 1901
self, whereas Sonya was undersexed,
perhaps the eternal virgin type yet
with an infinite capacity for loving. Not
even his children seem to have stirred
any real feeling in Tolstoy: he records
their deaths with the Russian or French
equivalent of couldn’t-care-less and
hastens on to more absorbing topics.
As Henri Troyat comments, “Imper-
tinent old Narcissus, eternally pre-
occupied with himself, he blew' on his
own image in the water, for the sheer
pleasure of seeing it come back when
the ripples died away.”
The rakish Count Leo had almost
gambled through his entire inheritance
before he married the sensitive 17-
year-old, but Sonya was soon putting
his affairs in order, buying back land,
making time for him to write, copying
his MSS over and over by hand—seven
times for “War and Peace”—decipher-


ing his illegible microscopic script, his
alterations to the alterations, with a
magnifying glass by candlelight. In fact,
it does not seem too much to claim
that without his wife’s help and
encouragement in those earliest years
he might never have come to write a
single important work. Later on, fol-
lowing the lead of Dostoevsky’s widow,
she even became his very successful
publisher.
Only through these business activities
which Tolstoy so disliked in theory but
could not live without in practice were
they able to provide for all those
children, that bevy of crowd-scene
extras that came for a day and stayed
for years, presuming on the traditional
laws of Russian hospitality, his personal
house physician, his flocks of holier-
than-thou disciples. Yet, in his final
will, penned in a secret glade in the
forest as in some bad comic-opera, he
succumbed to the dictates of Chertkov,
his stern Disciple No. 1, and signed
away all his royalties as a final public
gesture of protest against the evils of
private ownership—when he no longer
needed them. Later, his destitute widow
was granted a pension by the Tsar her
husband had always despised.
Tolstoy’s death from pneumonia in a
little railway station, with every train
disgorging crowds of gogglers, with his
wife debarred from entry, the blinds
drawn across in her face as she tried to
peer into the window, has an element
of tragi-comedy about it. Otherwise,
comedy seems to have been the main
ingredient lacking in Tolstoy’s make-
up. There is scarcely a single leaven-
ing crumb of humor to be found in him.
Not even the aged author Turgenev,
just back from Paris and kicking up
his fat legs in a demonstration of the
can-can, brought a smile, only a
recorded rebuke for frivolity.
If this review seems to have dwelt
overmuch on the negative side of
Tolstoy’s character, it is because it is
impossible to have lived with the old
rogue for the one solid week it takes
to read this book comprehensively
(including tea-breaks, all those silver
samovars and scalding hot glasses of
“chai” are very thirst-catching) with-
out carrying away this final impres-
sion. This in no wise detracts from
Tolstoy’s genius as a creator. On the
contrary, it is almost a confirmation
of genius, “the dungheap” that pro-
duces “the flower,” the art that blooms
the brighter for the rich humus from
which it is constantly drawing nourish-
ment.
THE SCRUTINEERS
By TERRY COLLITS
A Selection from Scrutiny. Compiled
by F. R. Leavis. 2 volumes. Cam-
bridge. $2.35 each.
NOW, JUST a few months after “Anna
Karenina and other Essays” reached
these shores, delicate critics must re-
gird themselves for another Leavis on-
slaught—two innocent-looking volumes,
which, however, have the whole weight
of “Scrutiny” behind them. For, to
judge from the urbane peevishness
which marked the reviews I read of
the recent volume of Leavis’ own
criticism, it looks as though it will
be a long time before any publication
associated with the Leavis name will
be received with anything like
equanimity. Which state of affairs, of
course, is not necessarily altogether
unfortunate at least it should assure
that these 80-odd reprinted essays
from “Scrutiny” will be bought and
probably read.
Dr. Leavis points out in his intro-
duction to the new selection that these
two volumes are not intended to be a
“representative anthology,” a sort of
pocket-“ Scrutiny” for the little man.
Most of the finest literary criticism that
first appeared in the pages of
“Scrutiny” above all, most of
Leavis’ own work has long since
been widely available. Further, the
present selection makes little attempt
to suggest just how wide was the range
of “Scrutiny’s” interests; it is “confined
to criticism of English literature, with
the addition of some matter of closely
related interest.” In fact, all the new
selection does do is make widely avail-
able a large body of important work
that has hitherto not received general
attention, loosely arranged under cer-
tain headings, which make a little more
specific Leavis’ general description of
the book’s intention.
Rightly, the essays of Leavis and his
wife dominate the present collection,
just as they did the original review.
Indeed the first important service ren-
dered by the new publication is to make
widespread the writings of Mrs. Leavis,
whose notoriety up to now has had to
rest mainly on that subversive book
“Fiction and the Reading Public.” For
a long time fairly respectful mention
has been made of her work on Jane
Austen, the lengthy “Critical Theory of
Jane Austen’s Writings,” but bringing
myself to read these now for the first
time, I must confess to disappointment.
The paper-man the whole study sets out
to demolish, who gushes about Jane
Austen’s novels being a “miracle,” is
hardly established as being a real threat
to clear critical appreciation of Jane
Austen. While Mrs. Leavis does bring
some illumination of Jane Austen’s
habits of writing, through her pain-
staking examination of the “minor
novels” and letters, her personal con-
tempt for the imagined adversary
betrays her, I feel, into an over-
compensatory matter - of - factness of
tone. Her own aim “to argue that (Jane
Austen’s) novels are geological struc-
tures” raises alarms of a different kind,
and in the case of “Mansfield Park,”
at least, the tone leads to an implied
reading of the novel that, to my mind,
misses what is most profound in it.
In the present context, I can do no
more than assert this. I do so mainly
to draw attention to other, less known
work of Mrs. Leavis: not so much to
the number of reviews of contemporary
writers here reprinted, whose caustic
wit continually totters on the verge of
plain sarcasm, nor even to those good
essays on Henry James and Edith
Wharton. Rather, the work I have in
mind is that summarised under the
head “The Cambridge Tradition,” half-
a-dozen essays which re-create, with rare
inwardness and critical judgment, the
world in which “Scrutiny” first
appeared. The admirable, sympathetic
study of A. C. Haddon, founder of
Anthropology at Cambridge, reveals a
career that has obvious enough affinities
in Leavis’ own, related especially in the
obtuseness, or blindness, with which
that man’s zeal was met by the ancient
and conservative University. Yet the
personal emphasis this affinity gives to
Mrs. Leavis’ study is continually tem-
pered by the felt need to do justice to
Haddon and his colleagues, the need
providing a sustained discipline and
detachment often wanting in Mrs.
Leavis’ easier hatchet-jobs.
Sureness of tone again marks the
following essay, “The Discipline of
Letters,” which proceeds, through a
close study of the case of George
Gordon, Professor of English at Cam-
bridge, to examine and place the influ-
ence of the dead hand of the classics,
which early closed its grip over the
new English studies. Mrs. Leavis’ sure
sense of social change, her keen eye
for cues that are symptomatic of
broader social influences betoken an
intelligence that is not, strictly speaking,
of a literary critical kind. Her critical
writings cannot stand alongside those
of her husband. But the prose of these
essays alone comes from a mind that is
alert and independent.
One example of the vivacity of her
writing might suffice. Here she. is
commenting on the tendency of Gordon
and his set of conservative academic
colleagues to accommodate themselves
to “modern,” classically trained poets
such as Bridges and Housman and how
this provided a kind of let-out clause
when their dogmatism on other writers
began to look ridiculous:
“This was a cunning move, obviously
more serviceable than the last-ditch
foaming-at-the-mouth attitude. It kept
pace with the quiet ratting that was
occurring at this time on the Hopkins
controversy, and inaugurated the shift
of opinion about ‘the modern move-
ment’ that was noticeable very soon
after. For such a social group, though
it does not move or alter essentially,.
has to modify its facial expression from
time to time in order to survive. Take
the affair of Hopkins, which we have
outlined —by the time Mr. House had
published the fruits of his scholarly
labors what bad taste it would have
been to suggest that they were super-
fluous! The critics, that is, had suc-
ceeded in persuading the great world
that they were right about Hopkins
and the academic club wrong, and Hop-
kins had become a classic in face of
the club’s persistent blackballing. (This
is the mysterious process known in the


CELLARMASTERS GUIDE TO AUSTRALIAN WINES
The most
authoritative
work on
Australian
wines by
Cellarmaster of
The Bulletin.
Send the
coupon below
with a cheque
or postal order
for $1.50 to
The Bulletin,
Box 4088,
G.P.0., Sydney,
N.S.W. 2001.
r
~i
PLEASE SEND ME COPIES OF
CELLARMASTER'S GUIDE TO AUSTRALIAN WINES
NAME
ADDRESS
I ENCLOSE $ CHEQUE/POSTAL ORDER
-J
text-books as ‘having stood the test of
time.’)”
The (surprisingly) numerous essays
of Dr. Leavis that had not appeared in
book form previously are not of con-
sistently high interest. Essays comment-
ing on (rather laceratingly) the con-
temporary literary world of the ’thirties
and ’forties tend to become dated.
Functional at the time of first publica-
tion they now tend to sound repetitive
and limited in their interest (“The
Literary Racket,” “Mr. Pryce-Jones,
the British Council, and British Cul-
ture,” etc.). Reading these essays we
may wonder whether Leavis’ lasting
greatness will rest so much, in the
future, on this side of his achievement.
Or, for that matter (and this may be
the ingratitude of a younger generation
blindly taking what it gets), on that
establishing and breaking of repu-
tations among contemporary writers, of
which these volumes provide many
examples.
Rather, it struck me that the most
impressive work of Leavis’ printed here
came in the section entitled “Judgment
and Analysis: Notes in the Analysis of
Poetry.” The down-to-earth lucidity and
demonstrated argument of these essays,
which give full and unshirking attention
to theoretical problems relating to the
reading and criticism of poetry, should
give them classical standing in their
field. They are the work, above all, of a
great teacher and suggest one of the
chief benefits for criticism of the growth
of English as a “subject.” They will, it
is hoped, become fairly standard read-
ing for teachers and students or, for
that matter, anyone who wants to learn
something about poetry.
Related to these, though of an
interest more controversial and his-
torical, is the section headed “The
Responsible Critic,” being a reprint of
certain essays and rejoinders of both
Leavis and Professor Bateson, of
Oxford. The controversy could be
described as an epitome of many
things: the contrasting orientations to
literature of Oxford and Cambridge; or,
to take one side in the debate, the
intransigence of the scholars’ mind in
the face of an argument of literary
criticism. The essays, here printed side
by side for the first time, with a new
postscript from Professor Bateson, will
provide, in brief, documentation for
much of the heatedness that has sur-
rounded the name of Leavis over the
past 30 years.
Perhaps a more formidable statement
of the value and relative importance of
“scholarship” (a more respectable
statement of what that value might be
for criticism) than Professor Bateson’s
could be conceived. The stature of such
scholar-critics as Johnson and Bradley
comes to mind here though at once
it must be said Leavis’ own statements
of the value of scholarship seem to
suggest a greater recognition of such
men than does anything Bateson offers.
The characteristic Leavis tone of
asperity and exasperation that marks
most of his controversies is there, a
tone less controlled than in earlier
essays; but so is the man’s wit, a
quality too often completely ignored.
The exasperation is at times hardly
suppressed; at times one might wish
his sarcasm had been moderated, for
it doesn’t help his case on a “political”
level. Yet, with Bateson’s replies printed,
readers have the opportunity of judging
to what extent these tones are justified.
The degree of attention I have given
to the contributions to this selection
of Dr. and Mrs. Leavis is based on
the belief that these essays will prove
to have the largest general interest.
This emphasis may be a little
unfortunate. Actually, half of the essays
included come from other hands and
offer what is so rare these days
lively and provocative discussion of
literature. The directedness of “Scru-
tiny” gives to most of the contributions
a kind of intensity and sharpness that
is in the best interests of critical dis-
cussion. I never come upon an essay of
D. W. Harding without wishing
that this robust mind had been given
over, more fully, to literary criticism;
his essay on I. A. Richards is a model
of stringency and clarity. Of the other
essays, those on “literary criticism”
include studies of established “classics”
such as James Smith’s work on Words-
worth, the Metaphysical Poets, and
Shakespeare, as well as reviews of the
works of Eliot, Yeats, Pound, Auden,
and other contemporary figures, done
as these works made their first appear-
ance; while the work on “related
matters” carries on the Culture and
Environment kind of concern, above
all the contributions of Denys Thomp-
son, which are not without interest,
though that interest be of a fairly
specialised and restricted nature.
IS IT SPRING YET?
Water thronging the gutters,
the angry thither of magpies’ wings,
the armageddon of football finals,
and the lyric the D.J. sings
“only eighty shopping days
till Christ is born.”
The collared workers are clattered
home
to find their shorts and mow the
lawn.
Timetables for exams campaign
across the notice boards;
lambs bemoan their icy ribs,
camping sites await their summer
lords.
Spring refracts along the young
grass,
yearning to die and burn,
and “Greensleeves” tells the thawing
world
what Mr. Whippy soon will earn.
Spring is not thought shallowed up
from Shakespeare; but an amnesty
and not a birth;
a vicious ecstasy of honesty.
JOHN HANRAHAN


SOMETHING NEW WITH
Graham Kerr
FAREWELL TO
SLICED LETTUCE
AND TOMATO
THIS YEAR’S Lycopersicum escula-
turn is, I am told, likely to be the best
ever. I venture to suppose that we might
share a common lack of interest in
the Lycopersicum esculatum to this
date. I certainly was not aware that
the crop lasts through July to October,
that it grows best on rich volcanic soil
and takes four months to reach full
maturity, that it was first grown in
Brazil and has a vast vitamin C con-
tent.
Nor did I have any idea that
Queensland produces, from Bowen and
Redland Bay areas, 72,000,0001 b. of
Lycopersicum esculatum each year.
The final absorbing fact is that they
are as cheap today as they were ten
years ago. Lycopersicum esculatum is a
tomato in this case from Queens-
land.
Undoubtedly this is one excellent
reason why Australia deserves to take
its place as a great food nation. Where
else, other than in the U.S.A., can
fresh outdoor tomatoes be picked today
and reach the consumer within two to
three days, in midwinter?
In my early technical training, when
I learned how not to make white
sauce, I also discovered color.
Our chef instructor intoned with
great dramatic projection, “Now then,
when yer serve up a pallid plateful,
it looks disgustin’ unless, mark you
gennelmen, unless you ’ave a good
belt of color . . . and that means —you
ignorant lot carrot, tomato, or a
slice of bleedin’ beetroot!”
Time and time again he delivered
this priceless gastronomic guide to his
eager students. The result, I feel sure,
is the sickening garnish so often used
in Anglo-Saxon cuisine.
You’ve seen it —the beetroot bleedin’
into ungilded Pommes Duchesse (stone
cold), the sliced tomato (skin and all)
craftily presented in a chaff-like heap
of sliced lettuce. The sodden carrot
orange to be sure, but utterly taste-
less and waterlogged. All served in the
interest of color, color, color.
The tomato in the summer has a
completely different use from that of
its winter cousin. Salads, the quick-no-
fuss-eat-on-the-run meal. Here the
tomato is ideal.
When the wind backs round and the
evenings grow dark and chill it has
another part to play; to bring color
to cooked dishes and add warmth in
itself.
Here, then, are some pointers:
You can grill, bake, poach, steam,
shallow-fry, and casserole tomatoes.
They have enough flavor to stand alone,
provided they are adequately seasoned.
Basic seasoning should include freshly
ground black peppercorns, freshly
ground rock salt (vastly superior to
regular salt), and a smidgen of either
fresh pulped garlic or garlic powder.
Unless they are destined to be served
cold, it is vital that they be cooked in
butter. And, of course, the butter should
always be clarified (ghee).
The first step to take in variety is
to add herbs. These are my recommen-
dations. Basil this is a native of
India, comes from the mint family, and
has an aromatic clove-like aroma. “Bon
Appetit” one of the new blended
herbs based on a celery flavor manufac-
tured by McCormicks, excellent with all
tomato dishes. Celery Salt —good, but
must be used in small quantity. Cloves
can be interesting, especially when
stuck into the tomato prior to baking.
Oregano is a strain of Marjoram,
known as “wild” Marjoram, and is
widely used in pizzas and wherever
tomatoes are found. Parsley pretty
standard. Rosemary I use a few
spikes (leaves) on top of grilled half
tomatoes; it gives an unusual and
attractive flavor. Sage this herb is
used occasionally, but it doesn’t alto-
gether appeal to my taste; it may be
yours. Sesame Seed here you can go
way out. A crust of sesame seeds
sprinkled over a well-seasoned half
tomato and grilled makes a change
from the standard buttered bread-
crumbs. Thyme I prefer the fresh
Lemon Thyme. Savory sometimes
called Summer Savory; use sparingly.
Having experimented with various
herbs, the next step is the “cover-up”
food. By this I mean a food that com-
plements the tomato flavor and can be
put over either the whole grilled,
fried, baked, or steamed fruit or placed
on the cut half tomato. Here are some
ideas.
Mozzarella cheese (Australian)
thin slice to just cover the cooked
tomato, heat for 30 seconds to melt.
Anchovy fillets—crisscross on top.
Mushroom cap —fry in butter with
squeeze of lemon juice, dust with salt
and cayenne pepper.
Proscuitto —cover half-grilled tomato,
brush with butter, dust with a very
little sage, and add a squeeze of lemon.
Place under a hot grill for 15 seconds
to heat.
Finally, when you’ve exhausted the
range of “cover-ups” you advance into
the übiquitous “stuffed” field, where the
denture-offending pips are removed and
replaced by rare concoctions, often re-
volting, but sometimes good fun.
For example: Freshly cooked leaf
spinach, combined with yoghurt.
Sweetcorn, combined with crisp fried
bacon and topped with lemon parsley
butter (maitre d’hotel).
Liverwurst “au naturel”—prefer-
ably only just reheated.
Sauteed chicken liver and mush-
rooms delicious.
These ideas are listed in the best
interests of Australian food. Perhaps in
future we may avoid repetition of a
well-known gourmet’s farewell to our
fair land, “And now we say farewell to
the land of sliced lettuce and tomato!”
Letters
Women
After reading “Women with Time on
their Hands” (8., June 29) my blood
began to boil. It was the condescending
patronage of the “Mums of Grand
Surburbia” (whatever that means)
which caused it mainly: that and the
categorical assumption in the article that
women who have activities outside the
home necessarily must be bored. The
emancipated woman is the product of
seventy million years of evolution, I am
told. The business of status, guarding
territory, and running society have been
always masculine preserves while
(according to the pattern of animal
behaviour) the female has been the
sexual expert and minder of the young.
Now society teaches her that she must
not take the iniative in sex and that
caring for her young is no longer
sufficient activity for her. In her new
dilemma, woman deserves all the com-
passion that she can get, in order to
help combat the topsy-turvy conditions
foreign to her instinct. She has no
instinctive equipment to cope with these
conditions; on the one hand her genes
tell her to mind her young and on
the other hand society tells her to get
out alongside men and do “something
useful.” It is not surprising that she
seeks diversion and transcendence in
these bewildering circumstances.
Mrs. Josephine Key
Newport, N.S.W.
The SRC at Monash
In the article “When CAF was CUF-ed
at Monash” (8., June 29), by subtle
implication the writer managed to
connect the issues of SRC reform
and the University Disciplinary
Statute by virtue of a mysterious group
that he continually refers to as the
“radicals.” Perhaps some elucidation of
the facts will clarify the issue and re-
store some of the proper balance.
To illustrate how the “radicals”
started this movement, the writer states,
“It (Monash) lived up to its reputation
when radicals took control of the
elected SRC and got the votes for its
dissolution.” This is the first inaccuracy.
There was by no means a “radical”
majority on the SRC when it voted to
dissolve itself. The New Left and
Labor Clubs in fact had refused to
run club candidates on tickets for the
elected Bth SRC, contrary to previous
Labor Club practice.
The majority was composed of
apolitical representatives, many of
whom supported dissolution. The act
of dissolution was ratified by a stu-
dent general meeting, called by the
SRC itself, with more than the two-
thirds majority needed of the 3000
students wbo attended that meeting. By
definition of the writer, then, nearly
3000 students at Monash are “radicals.”
The writer continues: “The radicals


THE
NBN CHANNEL 3
ART PRIZE
in association with the
Newcastle City
Art Gallery
$l,OOO
Open, Acquisitive,
Painting Prize
$3OO
Regional Prize
JUDGE:
Eric Westbrook
Director, National Gallery of Victoria
Entries close 25th September, 1968
details from:
The Director, Newcastle City Art
Gallery, Laman St., Newcastle. 2300
N 8366.53
Good on You, Mux!
Reviewing Jeff Carter’s new book,
OUTBACK IN FOCUS, Max Harris
says: . a book which is far
superior to The Australians ... I
prefer Jeff Carter’s photography to
that of Goodman, and there is an
additional dimension to this new
volume. It is the product of a unified
view of the environment and human
complex, not a haphazard compil-
ation ... a combination of authen-
ticity and imagination . . .”
OUTBACK IN FOCUS
$7.50
by Jeff Carter
RIGBY LTD.-
ADELAIDE
ST. GODRIC’S
COLLEGE
2 Arkwright Road,
Hampstead, London, N.W.3
ENGLAND
St. Godric’s, the largest Secretarial,
Language and Administrative Residential
College for Girls of its kind in Britain,
offers a wide range of courses for a
secretarial career.
New term starts 12th September,
1968.
Please write to the Registrar
for a prospectus.
intended to put to a mass meeting pro-
posals for a new system of government,
based on frequent mass action meet-
ings and ad hoc committees of acti-
vists.” These proposals that the writer
attributes to the same “radicals” by
implication fell closest to the pro-
posals that were for a short time ad-
vocated by the Labor Club. It would
be fair to call this group radicals, but
these proposals were not the ones ad-
vocated by the so-called “radicals” who
dissolved the SRC.
Attempting to illustrate that one
movement was responsible for both
SRC dissolution, and the Disciplinary
State issues, the writer states: “The
movement got a real start early in the
year when V.-C. Matheson announced
that the University’s Disciplinary
Statute was being amended to allow
the University to penalise students
for misconduct off as well as on cam-
pus.” Apart from the fact that this
power had always resided in the
Statute which was being revised (not
amended), this was not one movement.
The SRC in fact called all three stu-
dent general meetings, each of 2000-
3000, to consider the Disciplinary
Statute, not “they” whom the writer
now implies are “militants.”
SRC Reform and the University Dis-
ciplinary Statutes have all been suppor-
ted by at least 2000 students at general
meetings. These are responsible actions
by an unusually large number of in-
terested students and are in no way
the result of a conspiracy of “militant
radicals.”
Alan Oxley
President, Monash U. Liberals,
Noel C. Lethborg,
ex-president, Bth SRC, Monash
Clayton, Vic.
What do students want?
The Anarchism - student thing (8.,
July 6) was surely written out in 1908,
when I was a teenager. And what an un-
founded assertion to say that the “essen-
tial feature of the young ... is that
they have not got an original thought
among the lot of them.” Even if it
were true, it is adult society which
produced them, but such an admission
is the last thing likely to dawn on a
generation noted for its ignorance, in-
difference, negligence, and incompet-
ence in such matters as education,
politics, religion, and so on. Very
much nearer the mark is the
“Observer’s” note of John Crosby’s
claim that “this generation of young
people is one of the most remarkably
gifted generations in all British
history.”
Ewan Tucker
Sandringham, Vic.
Cost effectiveness
China's borders
I would like to make some comments
on the letter from Peter Samuel (8.,
June 29). The question of Chinese
territorial claims over Tibet, Mongolia,
Manchuria, for example, certainly did
not arise from Communism. But the
rise of Communism gave a tang of
acerbity to it. In colonial days when
Chinese geography and history was
allowed to be taught in Chinese schools,
even the dullest buffoon in class would
have the vague impression when he left
school that somehow or other Tibet,
Mongolia, and Manchuria were
regarded as part of China. Of course,
the question whether these territories
should be retaken was not fully empha-
sised in Chinese schools operating in
South-East Asia; for many reasons, one
of which might be that school texts had
to be vetted by the then Department of
Protector of Chinese, for instance, in
erstwhile Malaya and Singapore. With
the rise of nationalism, territorial
claims are getting commonplace. It is
a sort of teething problem.
Lee Kok Liang
Penang, Malaysia
Opera House organ
I cannot imagine what kind of organ
Mr. Esgate (8., July 6) has in mind
that will cater equally for concerts,
conventions, and social functions at the
Opera House. A baroque organ is the
only type that will adequately realise
the music of the period up to, say, 1800;
and this includes the music of Bach
and his contemporaries, much more than
half the significant literature for this
instrument. Furthermore, music of the
romantic and modern periods may well
be played on a baroque instrument. This
has been proved by recitalists on the
Knox Grammar School Chapel organ,
which is Sharp’s best instrument to
date and on which I play regularly as
Chapel Organist. This mechanical-action
organ is, by the way, far from inflexible.
R. Sutherland Smith
Wahroonga, N.S.W.
Peter Samuel claims (8., July 13) that
“Australian universities are culpably
negligent in not providing courses in
new management and economic tech-
niques like cost effectiveness analysis.”
At Monash alone, there are at
least 14 specialised subjects in the new
fields of quantitative decision-making.
These subjects may be taken in any one
of three degrees, two of them post-
graduate. Also there are opportunities
at Monash for economics students to
take a full major in mathematics in
addition to specialising in the more
traditional fields of economics, account-
ing, and administration. There are
even courses in such applied fields as
transport economics, while I run a
seminar in operations research for
public policy decision-making (you
know, cost effectiveness, etc.).
B. W. Brogan
Faculty of Economics and Politics,
Monash University
Clayton, Vic.


ism mam as sub
m/ommom
O
TOTALLY NEW!
Three new ACCO's! Available in 4, 6 and
8 wheelers, single and tandem axle drive.
Totally new axle loadings, compressor
type air brakes (standard equipment),
lightweight high-speed 185 hp
Cummins diesel engine.
A PRIDE OF ACCO
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
Take five ... add three totally
new models. With axle
combinations, power and
wheelbase variations you now
have over 30 different ACCO's
to choose from ... all with
cab entry forward of the front
wheels.
So International ACCO goes
30 different ways ... with one
to do exactly your job.
Designed and built in Australia, and
proved in typical rigorous Australian
conditions on the IH proving ground at
Anglesea, Victoria, these trucks will stay
with it, no matter how tough the
going. They're built for you ...
check with your IH dealer or Retail *
Sales Office now! They can tell you
about IHCC finance, hire purchase and <
leasing facilities, too.
g, 130
nternational build a truck to do a job ... change it only to do it better.
H INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
H2234/MT/FCP


Does it realty matter
what happened.
70 years ago?
J
I**
n
-
/
mi*
'
# j
We think it was significant that one man was thinking about
power to weight ratio at a time when other manufacturers
were making juggernauts. His name was Louis Renault and
his brother Marcel won the first Paris to Vienna race in a 30
h.p. rulebreaker against competitors with more than double
this rating. It matters to every Renault driver today that
back in 1898 Louis Renault was the original rulebreaker. Give
your spirit of adventure the chance to be rewarded drive
the 1968 Renault 10. .. *
RENAULT
B,
,BE REWARDED r
DRIVE IT! *
Renault vehicles are built in Australia by Renault (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., West Heidelberg, Victoria.
Peter Ryan Advertising, Sydney &
