

The Bulletin
JAIN UAM O,
ibf M 3 ATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE PEARCE
<y
£
tcred in Australia fur transmission by post os a newspaper,
Australia 25c, New Zealand 25c, New Guineo 32c, Singapore $1.25, Moloysio $1.25


If you’re not
interested in
Australia
don’t read
The Bulletin
If you are
interested in
Australia
how can you
not read the
Bulletin ?
The best way not to miss
out on Australia is through
a Bulletin subscription.
Under a special concession offer still current you
can now buy The Bulletin for 20c a copy instead of
25c. With this special offer Australian readers
can take out a 12-month subscription to
The Bulletin for $10.40. This represents a
saving of $2.60 on a year's issues. This offer is
available to Australian readers only.
MAIL THIS COUPON NOW
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me the next 52 issues of the Bulletin. I enclose a cheque for $10.40.
NAME ...
(BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS ,
(BLOCK 'LETTERS)
LJ Renewal [_J New subscription. Tick as appropriate.
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTION DEPT., BOX 4088, G.P.O., SYDNEY 2001.


The Bulletin
VOL. 89, No. 4583
JANUARY 6, 1968
ESTABLISHED 1880
WHY GIRLS
LEAVE HOME is
COLUMNS
One More Week 3
Out & About
by Daphne Guinness 4
Batman's Beechworth 5
Alan Reid, Michael Baume 6
Speculator's Diary 35
Marion Raymond's Cookbook 47
COMMENT 6_
AUSTRALIA 7_
SPECIAL FEATURES 11 & 18
COLOR PORTFOLIO 24
OVERSEAS 27
BUSINESS & FINANCE 31
THE LAND 38
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 39
BOOKS 43_
LETTERS 46_
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney 2001 —Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Box 4088. Phone: 2-06G6.
Melbourne 3000 Newspaper House,
Collins Street. Phone: 63-3341.
ONE MORE
WEEK
ALL IN FUN
HERE’S A BIT of jolly, rollicking
British fun. The weekend competition
in this week’s “New Statesman” is:
“Now that Harold Holt has been so
dramatically drowned, competitors are
invited to suggest other ways in which
world leaders might meet their end
and, if necessary, their famous last
words.”
MELBOURNE'S MORALS
THERE WAS CRICKET both in
Adelaide and Brisbane on Christmas
Day. In Brisbane there was the match
Queensland v. South Australia and in
the City of Churches, of all places,
there was a Test Match, India v. Aus-
tralia.
In Melbourne there was no play in
the match N.S.W. v. Victoria, indeed,
no sport at all. Yet it was legal for
the hotels to remain open. So Mel-
bourne on Christmas Day, very likely,
was the only place in the world with
open pubs and closed sporting grounds.
SIMPLIFIED
DURING our recent Christmas shop-
ping we noted a price tag for a
chesterdrawers.
A GIRL NAMED PIXIE
“I THINK they were right in sending
children down mines to work,” Pixie
O’Harris is fond of saying to her lively
grandchildren; but she is not very con-
vincing. Certainly not to eight children,
blessed with a grandmother who seems
to be half fairy. They call her Beetle
(“I’m the original pre-Beatle Beetle.”)
and huddle outside her studio for a
chance to get into that magic world of
dark-winged butterflies hovering over
improbable flowers, landscapes drenched
in a different sunlight, and phantom
white horses on hills greener than any-
thing to be seen in Vaucluse.
To Pixie O’Harris, who has just had
her sixth exhibition at Chippendale
Galleries, Regent Street, Sydney, life in
Australia has been a long drawn-out
duel with indifference, and to get any-
where with art she feels she has “bashed
away at. the rocks like any convict.”
With a lifetime of work behind her, she
now wants only to paint. “It has always
been so hard, so hard to make enough,
bread-and-butter money to do the good
things. I have an obsession that even
the paint I use must be chosen to last,
that paintings will survive all the bombs.
After all this I can’t be dismissed as
an illustrator.”
If it was good that such a promising
artist was dropped into our post-World
War I desert at a tender age, then we
can thank a crusading Australian
teacher transplanted for a brief time
to Wales. She bred such a devotion to
the idea of Australia in the artist’s
mother that from childhood she was de-
termined to move to Australia. Her
other ambition was to marry an artist.
Having located and charmed George
Harris, a member of the Union Inter-
nationale des Beaux Arts et des Lettres,
which included Monet, Cezanne, and
Anatole France at the time, she con-
centrated on raising a lively crowd of
prospective Australians. Pixie, who was
christened Rona, was fifth in a family
of nine.
Pixie’s unhappiness on the voyage
over made her the natural leader in any
non-conformist mischief and led to her
nickname. The cry: “Here comes that
damned Welsh pixie again” greeted her
efforts on what sounds to have been
an eventful trip for the rest of the
passengers. Geoffrey Lehmann’s poem
to Pixie O’Harris in the latest issue of
“Quadrant” discusses her far from
angelic youth. When she arrived in
Perth in 1920 she needed all the sense
of humor she could muster. “It was
all so awful I thought I must have
died,” she recalls. “There was no color
in the landscape. No sparkle in the
people. No magazines. No publishers.”
George Harris was finding few port-
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Looking back, I find that I ap-
proached 1967 with the same gloom
and foreboding that hear down on me
now on the brink of the New Year.
Douglas in “The Australian I ''
Aborigines are not friends of ours
and we don’t serve them. To me they’re
obnoxious.
Wilcannia (N.S.W.) publican Bruce Lennon
Simple mathematics show us that we
will run out of water by June if there
is no rain.
Melbourne City Councillor F. J. Hardy
I feel as though I were 20 years
younger than 77.
Ho 'Chi Minh
Abolition of State Governments in
Australia would free enough money to
keep hospitals and universities affluent.
| Dr. John Hayward
I want the job as leader. I think I
can do it.
Paul Hasluck
After all, ours wasn’t the only
Christmas show that failed. You
couldn’t call the Queen’s speech a gas.
Beatle Paul McCartney
Just as there’ll always be an Eng-
land, I say there’ll always be a Davis
Cup.
President of the Australian Lawn Tennis
Association, Bill Edwards


raits to paint in Perth, so the Harris
family moved on to slightly more
sophisticated Sydney. Pixie immediately
sold some of her work. She signed
herself Pixie for the first time, added
O for Olive as a middle initial, and
owes her apostrophe to the Sydney
“Mail” printer of the time.
She enrolled with Julian Ashton, who
gave her a skull to draw. “At sixteen
I was so full of life! And he gave me
a skull!” When she had her wholesome
cherubs bursting merrily out of the
eye sockets he said, “Now, now! We
mustn’t draw what we cannot see.”
Gradually Pixie’s ambitions were sub-
dued to the possibilities around her.
She caricatured for the “Greenroom”
magazine in return for a free studio
and illustrated books for Ruth Bedford,
Frank Dalby Davidson, C. J. Dennis,
and others.
After she married Bruce Pratt
(brother of artist Douglas) in 1928 she
began to publish her own books, using
her three daughters, Halcyon, Robin,
and Megan, as models. “For 20 years
I had my books on sale. Now they
are mostly out of print though I get
constant inquiries and send them hope-
fully on to the publishers.” She began
the Children’s Book Week and now
muses that it is rather nice to start
something which goes merrily on with-
out you.
After the birth of her daughter
Megan she was in hospital for some
time. Her own despair at looking at
a blank wall was something she felt
was probably magnified in the heart of
a sick child. So when she recovered
she began a marathon hospital decor-
ating scheme which has continued
through 50 hospitals and kept her poised
on ladders for 27 years. Many of the
children were models for the fairy
people and thousands of comments are
telescoped in her memory to the little
heart patient who arrived as a miser-
able new boy for his operation, cheered
up when he saw her at work, and said:
“Can you scribble on the walls here?”
Throughout all this saga of plump
babies, transparent wings, rabbits, and
Marmaduke the Possum, fairies and
elves, Miss O’Harris worked steadily at
her serious painting. “Funny things
happen when I paint. Figures get in
unexpectedly. Sometimes I dream whole
scenes. Sometimes I write the painting
in poetry I am always trying to
show my lost cities and dark towers
but I don’t try to write now. It
was a distraction. I became more and
more self critical, and, thank God, I
do because so many artists seem to
be terribly smug. It makes me physi-
cally ill to see some of those hospital
Walls. I know children love them, but
I always think, thank goodness some of
them have been painted out. I am
always painting over my work and
starting again. Sometimes I have just
painted something out that was in an
exhibition and someone arrives wanting
to buy it. I was once asked to do it
again as though I have a stencil.”
Pixie O’Harris... working day and
night
PICTURE BY BARRY McKINNON
Partially crippled with arthritis two
years ago, the affliction has only served
to make her more determined. “I stay
inside and keep at it now. And because
I can’t detail so much, I think my work
is freer. Time and pain are enemies,
and I sometimes feel like the artist
who went on painting madly while
the Roman hordes crept closer sacking
the city. But now I sleep in the studio
and I see my work as I open my eyes.”
OUT AND
ABOUT
The fun of
being seen seeing
the yachts off
By DAPHNE GUINNESS
WHO PINNED that luscious nude on
to Mercedes Ill’s bulkhead? And who
is she? Molly, wife of the yacht’s
owner, Ted Kaufman, doesn’t know,
but everyone’s saying it’s her. Mr. Kauf-
man can’t help, he’s gone off for extra
cigarettes. And why are they cutting
up Mrs. Bill Bold’s nylons aboard the
yacht Fidelis? Well, they think they’re
Mrs. Bold’s, anyway, it’s too late to ask
if she minds; her lacerated mesh klings
are now flapping nicely in the breeze
to ascertain what is known in sailing
circles as wind direction. They also
tie on strands of baby-blue knitting
wool in case Mrs. Bold’s stockings get
blown away.
At eight a.m. on the day of the
Sydney-Hobart race, the Cruising Yacht
Club of Australia is frantic with nauti-
cal gentlemen behaving in that
curiously hearty schoolboy way that
nautical gentlemen do when preparing
for the water. There is one serious
group, and that is the French crew
of the schooner Pen-Duick 111, a James
Bondish lozenge-shaped craft, with
plastic domes, which frightens every-
one to death, and they’re eating
breakfast. Their last ashore for a long
time, says someone loudly in rotten
French. Rumor has it their skipper,
Eric Tabarly, is building Pen-Duick IV
and plans a solo world voyage to outdo
his rival Chichester. Anyway, the
student crew is here clumping around
in sinister gumboots, adding a Con-
tinental flavor with Gauloise cigarettes.
Outside there is a furore of human
traffic battling up and down the jetties,
clamoring for a look at who and what
is taking part in this annual ordeal.
Denis O’Neil, that good - looking,
affluent young man, some say he’s the
last really rich playboy Sydney’s got,
calls it a week’s excitement there and
two weeks’ marvellous fun back. He’s
not doing it this year, but he is building
a boat for next. Apart from Mr. O’Neil,
who does get a lot of attention, there is
Bob Crichton-Brown chopping celery
heads on Saracen, his own yacht, Bal-
andra, which helped win the 1967
Admiral’s Cup Challenge, held up by
the London dock strike. There is Deidre
Breakspear, a junoesque lady navigator
on Ronita and the only woman crew in
the whole shebang, clutching her
journals in a plastic shopping bag. She
feels, she says, a little fragile. Awful,
really, last night was so late and do you
know she found herself sipping beer
in the bar at 7.45 this morning. Gosh .
There is Jim Davern, skipper and
owner of Fidelis, who had his Christmas
dinner up at the club and now regrets
it. The food wasn’t all that good. His
scoff now, on Fidelis, comes in plastic
bags and tastes marvellous. There’s Ted
Kaufman returning with his cigarettes.
This is positively the last time Jie moves
off Mercedes, he’s exhausted. There’s
the Customs official coming off that
French Pen-Duick 111. There’s Mr.
Cockle and his ketch Enid, as seen in
the cigarette commercial. There’s Don
Mickleborough’s Southerly crew with
SGFH on their shirts, which stands
for Southerly Great Floating Hotel.
There’s Lolita’s crew dazzling in orange,
September Song’s crew sexy in blue
check shorts.
Suddenly, across everything there is
a shout of “Hello, yo’awl, ah’m gonna
take mah coat off the minute ah get
on board,” and Mr. Edward Clark,
America’s departing Ambassador, sways
along the jetty in grey flannels, brod-
erie anglaise shirt from Manila, and a
pair of sandshoes belonging to Mr.
Water Phillips, the Esso man, on his
feet. His own were cut up on that l’il
ol’ Barrier Reef there.
Actually, Mr. Clark’s arrival is pre-
ceded by some attention-getting waiters
humping vast quantities of exotic food
on silver trays, through the ogling
masses, down the jetty, and on to Cap-
rice restaurateur Gerry Lapin’s 63ft.
motor launch Regina Sydney. Mr.
Lapin kinda gives the impression it’s


his party, but it’s Ed Clark’s and one
of his last engagements in Australia.
Thirty or so guests arrive including
the rich attractive Diana Von Kohorn
in green trouser-suit, wishing she’d
brought a swimsuit, and Charles Lloyd
Jones in grey formal suit looking miser-
able. “Ah’m afraid,” says Mr. Clark’s
aide and dawgsbawdy John Folger,
“Ah’m afraid we have an obstacle
course, and the worst obstacle is still
ahead.” Mr. Lloyd Jones gives a watery
smile, just manages the yacht and moves
thankfully into safety.
At 10.15 Mr. Clark leaves for the
starting line, flying the American flag,
the Texas Star flag and a l’il cocktail
number run up by friends which has on
it a waratah, a Texas rose, and the
Southern Cross. He collects the Premier,
Mr. Askin, from the official boat and
that lost buoy only puts the cocktail
hour off 30 minutes.
No one fell in. No one was ill. It was,
says Mr. Folger with relief, a pretty
placid party.
BATMAN’S
BEECHWORTH
"Gawd, couldn't
you go a
couple of jugs!"
BEECHWORTH is almost perfect. It
is the only town in Victoria that is
utterly historic. The public buildings,
put up at a time when the town was
stinking rich with the goldrush, are of a
superb local granite and the shops are
cast-iron balconied and thoroughly
verandaed. The beauty about the town
is that nothing much has happened
these past 50 years, and if you covered
up the petrol bowsers it would look
exactly as it was in 1880. Nobody has
had the money to ruin the town and
even the train arrives now only once
a week, mainly to bring in the beer.
Just lately, Beechworth has become
tourist-conscious, and once again Mr.
Ned Kelly is being called upon to
assist. Fortunately, Ned was both in
court and in jail at Beechworth. So
now you can go on Ned Kelly tours
to Beechworth, buy a Ned Kelly helmet
for 40 cents, and, for a little more, a
Ned Kelly scarf. Tanswells Commercial
Hotel is being beautifully restored to
exactly what it was in the 19th century
in co-operation with the National
Trust.
Ned, of course, drank in the bar at
Tanswells, so naturally it is being re-
named the Ned Kelly bar. You will
be able to stand on the very spot where
Ned ordered his pint and look up at a
large Kelly print taken from the
“Sketcher.” Yes, everything at Tans-
wells will be 19 th century except the
plumbing, which was 19th century be-
fore, anyway.
But the great feature at Beechworth
is the annual Golden Horseshoes Festi-
val, which is largely inspired by an
energetic vicar, Father Bob Hull.
Every year they have a procession
through town, and every year it is led
by the Hon. Tom Mitchell, MLA. Now,
Tom Mitchell is one of our great
characters. He will tell you the
Mitchells have been around the Murray
since 1838, and as for Tom, he is a
Cambridge MA and LLB.
This year they decided to re-enact
the great procession of 1873, the
marvellous gaudy affair in which the
Chinese wore special costumes imported
from China worth $l6OO ($lOO,OOO
these times), according to Father Hull.
Tom Mitchell led the parade on
horseback in the role of a general of
the celestial army and he was a sight
never to be forgotten. The Chinese
Consul, Mr. E. E. Liu, thought he
looked like Genghis Khan.
On the other hand, he looked some-
thing like an SF gentleman from Mars.
On his head he had a creation like a
large yellow crash helmet and out of
this sprouted two long red antennae.
Then he had a large flowering yellow
shirt, a splendid blue skirt held up by
a leather belt. But, wait, that’s not all.
Sticking out from his shoulders were
four pennants, all different colors. They
signified his vast rank. Then, sticking
out from the middle of his back was
a set of red dragon’s wings. These were
most awkward. Tom Mitchell dis-
covered that a Chinese general cannot
lean back in a chair when wearing
dragon’s wings.
Beechworth is only a small place,
3500 people, and 1000 of these are
patients at the local mental hospital.
But the work done was immense. There
were 300 in the procession all wearing
utterly correct period Chinese costumes.
Behind our celestial general there were
the Chief of the Second Literati, Chief
of the Third Literati, representative of
the Emperor of China, membei's of the
Imperial Academy, Custodian of the
Imperial Jewels, Chief of the Sick
and Distressed, and Chief Priest of
the Joss No. 1.
The heat during the procession was
terrible, and as they marched, bearing
sedan chairs, carrying banners and
pikes, exploding crackers and what-not,
their make-up, which looked like bad
bouts of jaundice, began to run. As they
passed the post office I distinctly heard a
distinguished member of the Imperial
Academy say, “Gawd, couldn’t you go
a couple of jugs!”
Mr. Liu, representative of the Repub-
lic of China, was on the dais to take
the salute from Tom Mitchell. Students
of history might have seen a beautiful
irony in all this. The ex-representative
of an exiled Chinese Government in
Taiwan was there to take the salute from
a general of a long-since-deposed
Chinese Imperial Army.
Ah, but it was a splendid procession.
The celestial general jumped up on the
platform to make a speech and almost
speared one of the members of the
official party with his antennae. When
untangled, he said, “When I was peeling
spuds in the Army during the war I
never thought that I would end up as
a general.”
He admitted later being a Chinese
general was a change of pace. Last year
he was Big Bill Cameron, the first
Member for the District. Bill Cameron
was a roaring big-drinking miner. He
found so much gold that he had his
horse shod with golden horseshoes and
he rode into town to buy everyone a
glass of champagne. At the declaration
of the polls he had a brawl in the
middle of the street with the opposing
candidate. As a story for a re-enactment
it is a little beauty.
Another time Tom played Mr. Ker-
ford, a local member who became
Premier of Victoria. “Yes,” said a beam-
ing Tom Mitchell, “that day Victoria
had perfect government for about 20
minutes.”
During the festival there was a
goldfields cabaret ball and there was
a gold-panning competition at Lake
Sambell. Here one could buy a genuine
gold-panning dish for $1.95 and, for
50 cents a time, one’s dish was filled
with a pile of earth that had been
spiked with gold. The man who did
the most perfect job of separating
earth from gold was declared the
winner. The organisers claimed that
they actually used $6O worth of gold,
but, alas, most of it was lost for ever in
Lake Sambell.
The Beechworth Lions buried a
time capsule not to be opened till the
year AD 2000. Letters were received
from dignitaries to be opened by their
successors on that date, and there were
messages from Sir Rohan Delacombe,
the late Harold Holt, and Sir Henry
Bolte.
The capsule was impressive: a con-
crete pipe sealed at the ends, which
weighed a ton and inside was a large
plastic bag. Various objects were
placed inside a picture of a Holden,
brochures from firms in Wangaratta,
a brick from a local brickworks, a
bottle of coffee, a tape from the radio
station, a bottle of whisky, a bottle of
vintage port from Brown Bros.’ vine-
yard at Milawa.
The choice hardly seemed repre-
sentative of our time. The range could
have been more interesting a mini-
skirt, a bikini, a Ron Barassi footy
sweater, a stubby, an empty can, a
pressed flower from a hippy, a charge
of LSD, the pill, a surfboard, some
Reid Murray scrip, a genuine Mel-
bourne meat pie preserved in formalin,
and a lock of hair two feet long from
the prettiest young man nearby.
Then all we would need to amuse
spectators in AD 2000 would be a copy
of Mr. Andrew Jones’ autobiography.


What kind of victory
for John McEwen?
COMMENT
BY
ALAN
REID
IN A SLIGHTLY ghoulish kind of
one-up-manship, two men have in the
past few weeks placed on the line the
future of the Liberal-Country Party
Coalition that has ruled Australia for
the past 17 years. One was Harold
Holt. The other is John McEwen.
Holt placed the Coalition at stake
for very substantive rea'sons. When
McEwen issued a statement which
questioned! both the wisdom of Aus-
tralia’s decision not to devalue the
dollar and Australia’s capacity to
maintain it, Holt took the view that
what was at stake was more important
than politics, Government, or party.
Involved was the stability of the Aus-
tralian currency. McEwen must be con-
fronted and repudiated, even if it
meant the breaking of the Coalition.
Holt, a friendly man to whom the
task must have been distasteful, con-
fronted McEwen and confronted him
successfully. McEwen agreed to accept,
without reaction, probably the most
severe repudiation of a minister by his
Prime Minister in Australian history.
When McEwen, after Holt’s dis-
appearance, announced that neither he
nor his Country Party colleagues would
serve in a Government headed by
McMahon, he refused to give reasons.
A major reason for the feeling be-
tween McEwen and McMahon was
McEwen’s belief that McMahon was
behind the Basic Industries Group,
which operates on the periphery of
rural politics and which is frankly anti-
Country Party. Its spokesman, Mr. R.
Chapman, says that the group has no
interest in McMahon but that, in the
interests of decency and in the light of
the allegations, he is prepared to swear
a statutory declaration that McMahon
is not connected with the group and
that he (Chapman) scarcely knows him.
McMahon has stated he has no con-
nection with the group. As far as I
know, no evidence of any kind could be
produced by Country Party interests to
Holt that McMahon had even the con-
nection of close acquaintanceship with
any known member of the group.
Another reason for McEwen’s anti-
McMahon stand freely proffered in
Country Party circles is McMahon’s
association with Mr. Max Newton, a
Canberra economic journalist, who has
been seen as a kind of mouthpiece of
McMahon and who has undoubtedly
been as critical exuberantly of
McEwen and his economic policies as
he is an admirer of McMahon’s policies.
I know these things have a flavor
of triviality. But trivial things often
have a way of deciding things in poli-
tics, particularly when they are super-
imposed on a basic personality clash
such as that which exists between Mc-
Mahon and McEwen. And McEwen’s
reasons cannot be fundamental. Be-
cause if they were neither Holt nor
McMahon’s Liberal colleagues nor
McEwen when he took over the Prime
Ministership would have kept
McMahon.
One effect of McEwen’s attack upon
McMahon has been to make McMahon
the symbol of the Liberals’ economic
policy. McMahon has attempted to
maintain Liberal policy in this area
of administration rather than leave
economic domination to the Country
Party. This is what has deepened the
McEwen-McMahon clash.
If McEwen has written finis to any
prospects that McMahon may have had
to be Prime Minister—and he certainly
appears to have done this McEwen
has won a victory. But his victory will
not be complete unless he can also
squeeze McMahon out of the Liberal
Deputy Leadership and the Treasury.
Is Australia
really growing?
COMMENT
BY
MICHAEL
BAUME
IT’S LARGELY A MYTH, this stuff
about Australia having a dynamic,
exciting, go-ahead ecopomy and being
a sort of Elysium for investors. There
is only one growth area in Australia,
and that is in its big raw materials de-
velopment projects. The rest of the
country is asleep on its feet. It is true
that production figures all keep steadily
improving, employment and wages keep
rising, and the statistics reveal what
officials regard as a pretty satisfactory
rate of economic growth. But accord-
ing to one key indicator we are doing
very badly indeed, and it is an indicator
that is particularly important, because
in itself it influences to some extent the
rate of growth it measures. That indi-
cator is the level of share prices on the
stock exchanges.
There is nothing new in the fact
that last year’s dramatic 40 percent
rise in the Sydney share price index
was almost entirely the result of the
minerals boom and hid a very dull 12
months for the rest of the market; that
has been pointed out repeatedly in The
Bulletin. But it is striking that this, dull
year, when added to the previous three,
means that there has been no growth
at all in share prices in the past four
years. Average share prices, as mea-
sured by the Sydney share price index
(excluding BHP, which is now an oil
and mining stock more than a steel one,
and all the other mining boomers like
CRA and the Barriers) are now con-
siderably below what they were four
years ago.
All but four of the 14 industry groups
that make up the share price index are
now worse than they w'ere in 1963; only
mining, steel (BHP’s oil), food, drink,
and tobacco (in a recovery after the
lung cancer scare), and banks (up a
bare 2 percent over four years) are
doing any better. And many of the ten
industry groups whose average share
prices have fallen over the past four
years have suffered severely; the aver-
age price of shares in companies mak-
ing basic materials like chemicals,
papei', glass, and rubber has dropped
by one quarter; so has the average price
of shares in companies making or re-
tailing electrical goods, and the retail
trade and services industries are even
worse off.
Foreign investment in Australia is
generally accepted as a worthwhile
activity, particularly through buying
relatively modest holdings of shares in
Australian companies through the stock
exchanges, for this gives us the advan-
tages of foreign-investment without any
of the possible disadvantages of foreign
control. But for Australia, to have any
appeal as a country where foreign invest-
ment in shares is worthwhile, it is vital
that the stockmarket should have a
healthy appearance. Good health encour-
ages confidence, and confidence pro-
duces enthusiastic investors, who, in
turn, make for a healthy market. Apart
from the mining boom, Australian
stockmarkets look far from healthy.
The reason for this is in the main
that the profit performance of the bulk
of Australian companies so far this
decade has been poor; their results and
their prospects have simply not been
good enough to encourage any real
enthusiasm about investing in them.
Whether this is the fault of the com-
panies themselves or of the economic
climate the Government has created for
them is another matter altogether. The
simple consequences of market’s dullness
is that we are no longer an attractive
place for foreigners to invest in, apart
from the rapidly growing number of our
quarries or wells. Our resources have
appeal, but not our industries. We are
not doing as well as we think.


AUSTRALIA
The contenders
How do they see Australia
as a power in Asia?
WHICH OF THE possible contenders
for the Prime Ministership of Australia
would be most likely to carry on
Harold Holt’s efforts to establish more
firmly the idea that Australia is an
independent Asian power as well as
being an ally of America?
To try to answer such questions it
is first necessary to understand why
Holt acted as he did. Holt was one of
those Australians who are unaffected
by color prejudice. He saw Australia’s
South-East Asian neighbors as human
beings with immense social and
economic problems and he could sym-
pathise with their political leaders in
their attempts to handle those prob-
lems: for this reason he could sympath-
ise with the problems of Sihanouk of
Cambodia as well as the problems of
Ky of South Vietnam. In the very best
sense and this was his greatest
achievement he carried into foreign
relations (in a way that so many of
his countrymen have failed to do) that
sense of fraternalism that is supposed
to be a characteristic of Australians.
In doing this he set himself up as a
kind of front man for Australian
foreign policy, dramatising a shift in
emphasis from the more narrow view
of Sir Robert Menzies. He was sensi-
tive to promptings from the External
Affairs Department, but he played his
role sufficiently well to ensure that by
his actions and speeches he also in-
fluenced policy, or at least strengthened
Hasluck ... inept successor
it. That there -was no strong follow-up
is another matter.
Of the contenders (either those who
are still in the race or would still like
to be) there are several who have not
shown any specific public interest in
foreign affairs.
Mr. Leslie Bury has seemed to have
been concerned only with domestic
matters (and this in a somewhat limited
way) or with foreign relations only
in so far as they are economic matters.
No doubt there are in his head some
feelings about Australia’s place in the
world, but he has not expressed them.
And there is some doubt as to whether
a man who seems more a professional
public servant than a national leader
would be capable of imaginative repost-
ing of Australia’s signs of direction.
Mr. Billie Snedden, the with-it can-
didate, has for some of the younger
Liberals seemed more a man of energy
and of youth than of policy, a kind of
monkey gland for their party. There is
no evidence that he has at present any
real sense of policy about anything, ex-
cept that on foreign affairs he seems
to be something of a simple-minded
anti-Communist and that as Minister
for Immigration he has been somewhat
more conservative than his predecessor.
It is recognised, of course, that an
open-minded man can sometimes fill
his brain with other people’s policies
and serve them with distinction.
Mr. Allen Fairhall does not seem to
be naturally a man with wide interests,
but as Minister of Defence, in the
present attempt to work out a three-
year plan by the middle of this year,
he has been brought head-on to foreign
policy considerations and he seems to
have shown more quickly than most
other Ministers an understanding of the
possibility of Australia playing a
regional role in South-East Asia, par-
ticularly among its nearest neighbors.
In making statements on defence he has
gone out of his way to include state-
ments on regionalism, although what
he has in his mind by this is not known.
So far as Mr. Bill McMahon is con-
cerned, there is an interesting parallel
with Mr. Holt. Both Holt and Mc-
Mahon displayed in their ministries a
greater concern with questions such as
full employment and social services
than was at the time credited to them:
they were both humane men with a
greater interest in ordinary people
than showed through their eastern-
States manners. From this base Mr.
Holt moved, as Prime Minister, into
a foreign policy that was based on
some recognition of the common
humanity that exists between men of
different races. It seems quite likely
that Mr. McMahon might have done
the same. His statements on foreign
policy last year had an old-fashioned
ring about them, but it seems likely
that, as a Prime Minister able to
draw on the External Affairs Depart-
ment, he would have been able to
learn a new way to talk.
Mr. Hasluck’s foreign policy is well
enough known. It is Australia’s. But
it was not due to Mr. Hasluck, but to
Mr. Holt that we learned what our
policy was. Mr. Hasluck has been a
more able External Affairs Minister
than he has let himself appear in
Australia; he is respected in the coun-
tries of South-East Asia as a man of
integrity and principle; but he suffers
from the extraordinary disability of not
being able to take Australians into his
confidence. Since one of the greatest
things that Mr. Holt did was to inter-
est Australians in their role in the
world, Mr. Hasluck, despite his un-
doubted qualifications in other direc-
tions, would seem a particularly inept
successor to Mr. Holt in this supremely
important respect. He suffers from two
other disabilities. One is that he has
become more and more closely associ-
ated with Mr. McEwen, and, as Prime
Minister, might tend to leave Austra-
lia to Mr. McEwen while he attended
to foreign policy (without telling us
what he was doing). The other is that
his administrative style is that of the
one-man show. He likes to make all
the decisions himself and he sometimes
does it in a way that assures the
Gorton... wider view


maximum demoralisation of those who
are working for him.
Senator John Gorton is the most
interesting of these various puzzles. In
domestic affairs he is something of a
radical, especially so far as unification-
ism is concerned, in which he is more
radical than -the Labor Party. There
would, in fact, be the danger that he
might throw himself so vigorously into
some cause such as pumping Common-
wealth money into the States to
weaken their authority that he wouldn’t
give much thought to foreign affairs.
However, this seems unlikely. He has
shown an interest in foreign policy
expert enough for some members of
the External Affairs Department to
make him their candidate for Prime
Minister. But estimates of his likely
policy vary widely. Some see him
merely as a tough hard-liner. Others
see him as someone who has a wider
view than Hasluck, with more interest
in Indonesia, for example, and with a
greater belief in economic assistance
as part of foreign policy. Gorton
might be prepared to put Australia’s
money where its mouth is, something
that Hasluck has been curiously dis-
inclined to do. Compared with Bury
and Hasluck, Gorton has the obvious
advantage of having an all-round inter-
est in the job and, compared with
Hasluck, he has the advantage of be-
ing in a position in which there would
be no personal embarrassment in
engaging in a trial of strength with
John McEwen. Compared with all the
others, he also has the same faith as
Holt showed that he should talk to the
Australian people and he sees the media
as his main link with them.
The most obvious instant successor
to Holt as an Asian Australian has been
Labor Party Leader Gough Whitlam,
who is now engaged in a tour in which
he is visiting Japan, India, Pakistan,
Hong Kong, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thai-
land, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia,
and the Philippines.
However, of the candidates for the
Prime Ministership, even the most un-
likely might come good when he
achieves office. When Harold Holt
took over who would have expected
that when he died the mourners would
Include special representatives from all
the countries of South-East Asia ex-
cept Burma and North Vietnam?
Diplomacy
Non-occasion
BUT FOR the ineptitude of John Mc-
Ewen Australia might have had Presi-
dent Suharto of Indonesia and Prince
Sihanouk of Cambodia in Melbourne
for the Holt Memorial Service.
Suharto was all set up to come to
Australia until his embassy cabled him
a report saying that McEwen had said
the service would provide an occasion
for a summit meeting of Vietnam
allies.
Not wanting to be too closely associ-
ated with Western Vietnam policy (he
desperately needs Russian aid),
Suharto called off his visit, sending in-
stead Foreign Minister Adam Malik
(who was already billed for a visit
this year).
At the same time Mr. McEwen’s
statement threw the attendance of Mr.
Lee Kuan Yew into doubt. Mr. Lee
did not finally decide to come until
24 hours before the service.
Any chance that Sihanouk of Cam-
bodia who got on handsomely with
Harold Holt, man to man might
come were, of course, shattered by Mr.
McEwen’s statement.
The McEwen announcement was
completely unnecessary. All the Viet-
nam allies were booked into the one
hotel in Canberra the Rex and
the “summit meeting” was simply a
matter of getting into the lift and
wandering down a corridor. But they
had the good taste not to make a
public political occasion out of it.
McEwen... shattering statement
CORRECTION
In The Bulletin of December 30, in
an article headed “Aborigines Plod-
ding Backward,” the chairman of the
N.S.W. Aborigines’ Welfare Board, Mr.
A. G. Kingsmill, was reported to have
said that he did not think assimilation
was what the Aborigines wanted. In
fact, the views attributed to Mr. Kings-
mill were an interpretation of those
expressed by another member of the
Board in evidence before a N.S.W.
Parliamentary Joint Committee. We
apologise to Mr. Kingsmill for this
error.
The Honors
Unbalanced scale
of values in the
who-gets-what
THE CLASS OF PEOPLE Australians
most honor are their politicians and
government officials. This is the finding
of a survey conducted on New Year’s
Day. The survey is called the New
Year Honors List.
The Bulletin weighted the various
honors according to their standing in
the table of precedence, and then
applied this scale of weightings to the
New Year’s Day list. Politicians and
government officials scored best, with
a total of 27.6 percent. If local govern-
ment officials are lumped in, the score
for politicians and government officials
goes up to 32.9 percent. If servicemen
are also added the score goes up by
10.1 percent to 43 percent.
In what might be described as the
private sector, the old professions (law,
medicine, nursing) with
12.2 percent came out
slightly ahead of bus-
inessmen (with 11.9 per-
cent), and almost
double farmers and
graziers (6.1 percent).
The new professions
were sketchily repre-
sented (architecture,
media) and could sum-
mon only 3.3 percent.
Sport, at 2.8 percent,
was given exactly twice
the honor accorded to
religion (1.4 percent).
However, the compara-
tively high honor given
to racing (1.85 percent)
helped here, and football
came in handy with .82
percent. If it had been
left to swimming and
women’s golf, the only
other sports honored,
the score of sport would
have been only .1 per-
cent.
Philanthropy and
social welfare did pre-
dictably well at 8 percent and the RSL
at 2.1 percent managed to do almost
as well as education at 2.2 percent. The
surprising entry was the arts and liter-
ature, which scored 6.9 percent be-
tween them (although some of those
honored in these fields might perhaps
have been better categorised under
business).
The smallest honor was to the hotel
industry. The .01088 percent of honor
awarded to this important industry was
due entirely to the efforts of the porter
of the Canberra Hotel, Brisbane. And
it is an example of the high honor we
give the aborigines that at .1 percent
they scored more than nine times as
much as the hotel industry.


Pressures on the Coalition
Another ultimatum
THE CHAFING within the Federal
Liberal-Country Party coalition has an
inverted parallel in Western Australia.
In Canberra, Mr. McEwen has refused
to serve under Mr. McMahon; in Perth
the Parliamentary Liberal Party is press-
ing for a similar ultimatum over Mr.
Les Logan, the Country Party’s Minister
for Local Government and —more par-
ticularly for Town Planning. Their
most recent meeting was to deal with
the problems of town planning which
are making a key issue in a State where
affluence has tended to make political
issues hard tb find —and State elections
are only three months off.
There has been some tough talking
among Liberals and their supporters
about town planners, seen as the villains
who are creating the land shortage
which has forced up the price of home-
sites. Only a few years ago it was
generally felt that Perth stood to benefit
uniquely from the experience of more
developed cities, and to learn from their
mistakes how to plan a Utopia. But
planning has become a dirty word and
influential Liberal supporters within the
building and development industries see
the Town Planning Department as
socialistic, a bureaucratic Frankenstein
monster the Government can no longer
control.
Even Labor’s Mr. Herb Graham,
formerly an able if radical Housing
Minister, has become a supporter of the
real estate and development groups, who
would seem to personify everything his
Party does not stand for. And, to com-
plete the succession of strange bed-
fellows, this same land lobby is claimed
to have given allegiance to the Country
Party during some of the more demand-
ing election campaigns. The latest
moves against Mr. Logan would have
him made scapegoat for the shenanigans
of many factions, without necessarily
getting to the basic problems the
aspirations of empire-builders who see
their destiny as the reshaping of Perth,
often without regard for where the chips
are falling.
Further evidence that Mr. Logan is
being sought as a patsy is heard in agita-
tion for the State’s Liberals to seek to
govern without Country Party support
after the coming elections. If the elec-
torate gives the Premier, Mr. Brand, the
chance to form a purely Liberal
Government, he may well face the alter-
native of rejecting either the Country
Party or the Premiership, so strong is
one body of Party opinion which would
seize such an opportunity to have him
cast aside.
At present the Liberals hold 21 seats,
the same as Labor, with the Country
Party holding balance of power with
eight seats. The coming election will be
the first with electoral boundaries re-
distributed, adding one member to the
House of Assembly— : from 50 to 51. The
Liberals would need to pick up at least
Les Logan ... sought as a patsy
five extra seats to go it alone. Professor
G. S. Reid, Professor of Politics at the
University of Western Australia, has
pointed out that the Country Party is
over-represented in Parliament; this is
compounded in the Cabinet, where four
Country Party Members hold important
portfolios.
In a State whose prosperity is geared
increasingly to non-rural industry, this
is considered an anachronism, and with
the West booming as never before the
antagonism generated is summed up by
a Liberal leader who says: “This expan-
sion is the result of basic Liberal policy.
We are doing everything we promised
for the State and more. The inhibiting
factor all the time is the Country Party,
and we would be better off without
them.”
Whether such philosophy is sound or
not, it has two sound political bases:
(1) it is easy to point out that the
State’s only real problems occur in areas
of activity covered by Country Party
ministers. (2) Such brutal pragmatism
could provide satisfaction for the only
real threat to the Government the
electors’ hankering for some kind of
change after having the one Govern-
ment for so long.
Bush fires
A blow-up alert
AS THE SUMMER grows long and
hotter the statistics show that half of
Victoria has experienced its driest spell
on record, and the other half is only
marginally more fortunate. Most of
the grass has withered almost to paper.
The forests of the coast, the central
hills, and the north-east are dry as
furniture and full of explosive gum.
The fire-protection officer of the Vic-
torian Forestry Commission, told The
Bulletin last week: “This summer is
potentially the most dangerous since
the disasters of 1939.” The Assistant
Chief Officer of the Country Fire
Authority said: “All the ingredients are
there for tremendous fires. They only
need mixing with a strong wind.”
The ingredients are the aridity of
drought conditions, high summer tem-
peratures, low humidity, and an in-
creasingly mobile population. In some
ways they are worse than in 1939 when
71 people were killed by fire in a few
days, large areas of the State were
devastated, and stock losses ran into
hundreds of thousands. This time the
drought has been more severe and the
humidity readings throughout the State
have been lower for some weeks, in
places down to 6 percent compared
with the 10 percent readings of “Black
Friday” in 1939.
The hope of the fire-protection
authorities is that the wind and tem-
perature will remain relatively gentle
for the next three months. They admit
to one thing being in their favor com-
pared with the years of previous disas-
ters: they feel better prepared to deal
with fire outbreaks than before.
The Country Fire Authority, which
has 250 permanent officers spread
throughout the State this year, call im-
mediately on the services of more than
100,000 volunteer fire-fighters. A net-
work of 1200 urban and rural brigades
connects with six zone headquarters
based in Bendigo, Ballarat, Flamilton,
Bayswater, Wangaratta, and Gippsland.
They are inter-connected by 1800
mobile radios.
The logistics of the Country Fire
Authority are centred on using their
large supply of men and their 1000
fire-fighting vehicles to beat out fires
before they become firmly established.
The central headquarters in Melbourne
is in constant radio communication with
all parts of the State, assessing weather
conditions, alerting volunteers, deploy-
ing its forces to counter outbreaks.
The Forestry Commission, which is
responsible for a quarter of the area of
the State, also says that its strategy of
fire-fighting is based on the quick
strike: “we must get fires when they
are small. We can’t afford to let them
get large, because the elements can then
take them out of human control.”
The Commission has more than 100
fire towers overlooking the State forests.
The Commission can call on some ten
private agricultural aeroplanes if it
decides the fire is dangerous and needs
an immediate counter attack. The
planes are used to drop “Foscheck,” an
ammonium phosphate compound widely
used in the U.S.A. and Canada, which
retards the fires until they are reached
by mobile forest-fire units.
The Commission has a helicopter
chartered for four months of the year
and uses small chartered craft for re-
connaisance, it has 1000 permanent em-
ployees available for fire-fighting, uses
teams of university students during the
summer vacation, and has ready access,
to men employed by milling companies.
Despite the improvements in their
resources, work-force, and communica-
tions, the fire authorities do not pretend
to be a match for what could break out
under the lash of a hot north wind.
Victoria has more fire-fighting equip-


ment than the rest of the Common-
wealth combined, but where the volun-
teer brigades are weak and communica-
tions inefficient there is little chance
of halting well-established fires. It is
also admitted that in the forests the
only real hope over the next few
months is to detect and douse fires
in their early stages.
When the Bulletin suggested to one
official that only a tenfold increase in
spending could guarantee adequate pro-
tection to the State during hot, dry
summers he replied: “The experts say
the spending would need to be in-
creased not by ten times but 25 times
over. Without such increase in men
and equipment we can. help out and
hope but we cannot guarantee fire pro-
tection.”
An art lift
The night is safer
REMBRANDT’S self-portrait worth
perhaps half a million dollars on the
open market looks rather sadly to-
ward the McArthur Gallery in the
complex of buildings which serves as
Melbourne’s Museum, State Library,
and National Gallery.
The McArthur Gallery is closed
for ever, the paintings down from the
walls, the door shut. Inside amidst the
slowly gathering dust the paintings of
the entire gallery are being stacked
in rows ready for packing and removal
as they are taken down from other gal-
leries, the Stawell, the La Trobe, the
Buvelot, the Verdon.
After more than 100 years of display
behind the grey Victorian columns of
their home in Swanston Street, the
contents of the National Gallery, hun-
dreds of thousands of objects including
more than 5000 paintings, are being
prepared for one of the biggest art lifts
in history. Late next month they will
be taken by night to the new gallery
and cultural centre in St. Kilda Road.
So far all the pottery and glassware
and oriental works have been packed
and all the European collection except
the Old Masters, which are thought
safest left hanging until the last days.
The pottery and glassware are packed
in cardboard boxes lined with polyure-
thane foam slabs and filled with poly-
urethane pellets. The paintings are
mostly protected by cardboard and
paper.
Estimates of the worth of the col-
lection vary from $25 million to $3O
million. Nobody has lately priced the
whole collection, but the chief worry
for the Director of the Gallery, Eric
Westbrook, is not breakage so far
no breakages have occurred in the
packing but theft. For that reason
the Gallery is employing a fleet of
armored cars and trucks, normally used
in payroll deliveries, to carry the valu-
able cargo.
For huge paintings such as Tiepolo’s
“The Banquet” large tray-bodied trucks
will be used, since there is no reason-
able chance of theft of an object 16 feet
by eight. The difficulty of transporting
such works without running the risk
of damage by carelessness and collision
determined the decision to carry out
the shift late at night from 2 a.m.
until dawn. No one knows how long
the shift will but it could last a
couple of months, which will be suffi-
cient time for the opening of the Gal-
lery in August.
In the new Gallery Rembrandt is
likely to find himself staring into a
sunny courtyard instead of the caver-
nous McArthur Gallery. His sad visage
will no doubt survive the anachronisms
of chemical-foam packings and armored
cars as successfully as it has suffered
the other indignities of its history.
After Rubens ’ “Garden of Love” and Rembrandt’s self-portrait... on the move
Foreign aid
Sense and sentiment
AFTER A QUIET beginning the
Australian Council for Overseas Aid
(ACFOA) is beginning to emerge as an
intelligent force in the workings of Aus-
tralian aid programs.
The Council began early in 1965,
with Sir John Crawford President, as
a body to co-ordinate some of the
work of Australian foreign aid agencies
and to promote research and the dis-
semination of information in the field.
Some of the original members of
ACFOA were the Australian Council
of Churches, the Overseas Service
Bureau, Australian Catholic Relief,
Community Aid Abroad, the Federa-
tion of Australian Jewish Welfare Or-
ganisations, the Young Men’s Christian
Association.
Eight months ago the Council set
up a full-time office in Melbourne
under its newly appointed Executive
Director, Mr. Brian Hayes, who was
formerly a program co-ordinator with
the secreteriat of the World Assembly
of Youth in Europe. He was once, also,
the National President of the Australian
Young Christian Workers. The new
offices are financed both by the mem-
ber organisations of ACFOA and by
the Federal Government. Mr. Hasluck
has given considerable support.
Mr. Hayes said in Melbourne last
week that after some initial frustrations
the Council was starting to achieve its
recognised objectives. “Too much aid
has been given out of the legacy of
charity,” he said. “Too much of it
out of a sort of combination of gut
reaction to the poverty in other areas
of the world. The trouble has often
been that aid organisations have lacked
the information necessary for them
to direct their aid in the right direc-
tions and give it in a manner which
promotes co-operation in the recipient
country. A lot of aid is received with
politeness by Asian and other peoples
who do not want to offend the donor,
but who would have wished for some-
thing else if they had been consulted.”
The Council now has 23 member
organisations ranging from Apex to a
body called “For Those Who Have
Less,” an organisation of farmers and
bloodstock experts, who have sent
hundreds of cattle to Asian countries.
In March, the Council will conduct
a seminar titled “The Human Factor
in Development.” The emphasis of this
conference will be on the need to
establish mutually dignified relations
with the recipients of aid.
Mr. Hayes believes that the very
words “aid” and “undeveloped” are
often barriers to the good reciprocal
relations which are necessary for
economic and technical assistance to be
most effectively used. He prefers words
such as “co-operation” and “mutual
assistance,” and sees aid as a matter of
sense, as well as sentiment.


Here is the
last word
on hippies
No need to read anything more
about hippies after you read this
WE VIEW THE American Press in
1967, the year of its discovery of the
hippie. The scene is San Francisco. A
young assistant editor of “Look” maga-
zine, with newly grown matted hair,
sparse light beard, eyepatch, necklace,
lapel buttons, ornamental hat, and old
clothes, is being interviewed by a lady
reporter, who surprisingly enough
has mistaken him for just another news
item. The pretend-hippie listens to her
“sexual and bizarre” questions. He is
sufficiently offended to permit himself
to be interviewed, and to concoct a
scintillating confession. He recalls
fondly that the lady “left satisfied,
and smacking her lips.” Meanwhile,
somewhere in the vicinity, another lady,
representing the “Saturday Evening
Post,” takes up temporary residence and
makes “a few friends.” These provide
her with an inside view so exclusive as
to make her sceptical of colleagues (in-
cluding reporters from “Look”) whom
she observes “largely interviewing one
another.” The lady tells us “Time’s”
cover story on hippies rests on serious
misinterpretations, stemming from an
inability to bridge the generation gap.
That is sad, for “Time” had tried hard.
To secure its story, it sent one reporter
into battle “wearing, in various com-
binations, faded old Nebraska levis, a
red mini-dress, and an unwashed Lon-
don Fog raincoat”; another appeared
with her arms “ornamented hippie-style
with Day Glo paints,” and a third,
male, was generously overhung with
seed beads. To ensure authenticity,
“Time’s” story was ultimately put to-
gether by a writer who “had tried the
beatnik thing himself” when young.
The hippie revolt, one sees, has been
met more than halfway by the Press,
and the Press has been responding—as
it usually does —to a public mandate.
Extraordinary reporting efforts have
been fed by (and have fed into) a
wave of public concern, of worry, of
ddbate, of itchy curiosity, that has
reached the proportions of a collective
obsession. In the glare of this interest,
the abject of inquiry has been distorted
and become hopelessly misunderstood.
He has come to serve as a symbol of
other people’s concerns, has been made
into a rarefied, idealised composite a
myth. This myth now substitutes for
data in discussions of the hippie as a
problem, and is reflected in the
hippie’s view of himself. It has created,
in hippie language, a “hangup”—a de-
lusion that inhibits accurate perception
and prevents appropriate responses.
Probably the majority of educated
Americans have in some degree be-
come victims of the hippie hangup. The
condition governs their dealings with
hippies, and induces the hippies to play
roles they see as prescribed for them.
One of the components of the hang-
up is the willingness to convert neutral
attributes to virtues. Much has been
made of the fact that hippies are
gentle, harmless, and non-violent. Their
avoidance of entirely hypothetical
dangers, such as wholesale freak-outs,
epidemics, and crimes, has been invoked
as impressive. Abstention from alcohol
is accepted as an index of purity. This
orientation allows the hippie to express
hostility in circuitous ways. He knows
that if he “plays it cool” he can play
it with impunity, and he masters the
art of operating on the safe side of
“I'm filled with love for the whole
world except, of course, for my own
lousy parents!”
anti-social limits. Worse, he becomes
adept at exploiting outsiders while re-
pudiating and victimising them. The
despised tourist is trained to pay with
an indulgent smile for libels directed
at him; police officers can be harassed
while being forced to act the part of
persecutor.
The technique of offensive solicitude
encouraged by the hippie hangup is
illustrated by the retaliation against
New York City police officers who par-
ticipated in the much publicised Battle
of Tompkins Square. After resorting
to every other form of protest, hippies
descended on the police precinct, with
(1) offers to paint dirty walls; (2) re-
quests for permission to wash squad
cars; (3) the proposal of a picnic for
officers’ children and (4) the promise
of a Mantovani record concert for the
precinct (no hippie would be caught
dead listening to Mantovani himself).
It is no accident that this campaign
made the police look foolish and ad-
vanced the cause of hippies among
hangup victims.
Also current among hippie hangup
victims is the masochistic theme, “Hip-
pies Are Our Values Come Home To
Roost.” A New York “Times” report,
for instance, opens with: “ ‘The evil is
in Greenwich and Great Neck, not in
Greenwich Village,’ a psychoanalyst
said here yesterday.” “Time’s” cover
story divulges that “many hippie atti-
tudes represent only a slight and
rather engaging distortion of the Pro-
testant Ethic that they purport to re-
ject.” Statements vary in degree of
favorableness and in the specificity of
the cause they isolate. Some social
scientists, who see every form of de-
viation from murder to drug-addiction
as the product of a dominant-mother-
weak-father home, apply their formula
to hippies; some moralists with a
By HANS TOCH
Mr. Toch is Professor of Psychology at
Michigan State University, in the U.S.,
author of “Social Psychology of Social
Movements” (Bobbs-Merrill) and the
editor of “Legal and Criminal Psychol-
ogy” (Holt, Rinehart & Winston)


propensity toward sweeping negative
characterisations of our society identify
hippies as a corollary of the American
nightmare; some pacifists readily trace
hippiedom to the Vietnamese crisis, and
some opponents of President Johnson
see ample reason for a universal trend
toward “dropping out” in the conduct
of his administration. The common
feature of such statements is the im-
plication that we cannot assign any
casual significance or responsilbilty to
the hippies for shaping their own
actions or inactions.
Another frequently encountered
aspect of the hangup is its tendency to
take slight but important liberties with
hippie ideology, in order to portray
the hippie as a quasi-revolutionary or a
quasi-saint or a quasi-social critic, or
to transform him into some equally
palatable stereotype. The conclusion
then can be drawn that a few addi-
tional minute changes in philosophy or
behaviour could direct the movement
into promising channels.
It is easy to transform hippies into
Noble Dissenters, because they are so
conspicuously noble, and because they
so obviously dissent. Their nobility is
implicit in their tender age, in their
dripping sincerity.
What has not been obvious to the
hangup victim is that the hippies are
not eager to relinquish their copyright
on the obvious, and that they resent
endorsements from outsiders.
Faced with dogmatism and rejection,
the hangup victim preserves his idealised
version of hippiedom by distinguishing
“real” hippies (whose attributes he can
defend) from “quasi-hippies.” One
common basis for differentiation is the
amount of time invested in being a
hippie. “Weekend” or “summer” hip-
pies are universally excluded from the
“real” hippie category; older hippies
or very young hippies are sometimes
deprived of legitimacy; completely un-
employed or conspicuously “straight”
hippies are also disenfranchised, as are
hippies who are excessively organised
or unduly alienated. Hangup observers
habitually view their own hippie in-
formants as models of orthodoxy.
The advantage of distinguishing be-
tween “real” and “pseudo” hippies is
that it provides an observer unlimited
opportunity for projecting into hippies
almost any attribute he considers de-
sirable. If the object is to depict hip-
pies as a contributing community, the
kibbutz may be defined as the proto-
type of hippiedom (“Time” thus points
out that “the new-found trip of work
and responsibility reflected in the
‘Morning Star’ experiment is perhaps
the most hopeful development in the
hippie philosophy to date”); if the ob-
ject is to emphasise alienation, the same
manifestation of “work and respon-
sibility” can be explained away as un-
hippie. (“The hippies are becoming
more and more organised,” Martin
Arnold states in the New York “Times,”
“. . . if this trend continues, the hippies
won’t be hippies any more, hippie ad-
mirers feel.”) The same discrimination
can be applied to political sophistica-
tion, artistic productivity, spirituality,
spontaneity, etc., according to whatever
functions the stereotype of the hippie
is required to serve. Sometimes hangup
victims defined hippies away altogether,
by proclaiming that a hippie apprentice-
ship is a salutary but passing phase in
the evolution of a contemporary youth.
A final attribute of the hangup vic-
tim is a propensity to caricature oppo-
sition to hippiedom with the implica-
tion that admiration is to be equated
with sophistication. The opposition may
be saddled with a membership of
narrow-minded politicians, arch-con-
servatives, old-line police officers, and
senile octogenarians; a favorable atti-
tude, conversely, may be deemed to
imply open-mindedness, love of free-
dom, and a tolerance of deviation, par-
ticularly in the young.
In fact, the unambiguously anti-
hippie faction has been very much in
the minority. It seems to take tw'o dis-
tinct forms. One is the visceral re-
action, such as that of the police officer
who confessed to the New York
“Times” that “the hippies have the
men more aggravated than anything
else. You feel like vomiting.” Lesser de-
grees of physical aversion are typified
by an article in “U.S. News & World
Report.” “The hippie is easy to spot. In
most cases, he needs a shave, a haircut,
and a bath. He makes every effort to
look bizarre.” To prove such assump-
tions, some reporters develop consider-
able skill at diagnosing unwashed feet
and unlaundered clothes, their inter-
views are designed to match, and tend
to elicit anti-parental diatribes and
accounts of drug-peddling.
This position is especially interesting
because probably the most whole-
hearted endorsement of hippiedom is
to be found in the religious Press.
“Christian Century,” for instance, has
published several articles, all either
apologetic or eulogistic. In one issue,
historian James Hitchcock informs us
that the hippies “preach the ancient
message of Christian asceticism.”
Hitchcock presents the hippie as a
compound of monk, mystic, and saint,
and credits him with an assortment of
other-worldly, meaningful concerns.
The point about hippies, he writes, is
that they “have directly and seriously
injected metaphysical questions into
our culture.”
One of the most revealing state-
ments embodying the premises of the
hippie hangup is a book-length sermon
entitled “It’s Happening” (with the
misleading subtitle, “A Portrait of the
Youth Scene Today”). The authors of
this volume, J. L. Simmons and Barry
Winograd, are connected with the Uni-
versity of California, Santa Barbara,
and this academic affiliation, particu-
larly since one author is a professional
sociologist, implies that the subject will
be treated objectively. This proves not
to be really the case.
Under the guise of describing hippie
ideology, the book relays the myth of
the Hippie Revolt against Soul En-
slavement. The conflict is presented as
a morality play, starring Heroic Hip-
pies, whose “pervasive humanism”
accentuates “the value of human beings
and human life,” who “reject the cate-
gorising and generalising which is so
rampant in our educational system,”
who rebel against “limitation on direc-
tions people can travel and grow,” who
are “unhappy with compromising
Establishment liberals,” and who in
many cases “are probably stumbling
toward what will prove to be more
realistic and effective roles which may
better fit the upcoming times.”
As one might expect, the book de-
votes considerable discussion to drug
use. “Tripping”—we are told—is an
ineffable experience (a standard hip-
pie evasion whenever the subject is
broached). But the elusive nature of the
experience does not curb the eloquent
portrayal of its benefit. A trip, we are
told, “frees the nervous system,” per-
mitting it to operate “in less prefixed
fashion.” As a result, “one’s sensations
are most intense and direct.” The
drug-user becomes able to “see things
in their intricate complexity”; if her
looks at his own life he will see it in a
different, broader, less defensive, and
hidebound way . . . And if he looks
abound at his society, he may see
through things and games and cosy
deals and arbitrary conventions that he
was previously taking for granted as
valid and natural.
In addition to perpetuating the myth
■ that hallucinations have didactic value
and that drug-induced jumbles can
somehow sort the real from the
apparent, victims of the hippie hang-
up do not neglect more direct hedonis-
tic rewards. The “psychedelic experi-
ence,” we are told, “is a time when
the senses come alive” and we are
furnished enticing detail.
What seems most interesting about
this type of treatment is not its par-
tiality but the seeming ease with which
efforts to be fair merge into surrender
to an idealised characterisation. Clues
to more realistic assessment of hippie
ideology come to be ignored; when they
are spotted their significance is under-
estimated.
Why, for instance, is it that hippies
“see most every restriction that modern
man has devised as a limitation on
directions people can travel and grow”?
Why is it that for the hippie “should”
isn’t good enough unless coupled with
“want to”? Whence the compulsion to
“turn the world on” or “to force your
enemies to become your friends”?
These questions are never posed,
although to those not subject to the
hippie hangup there is nothing self-
explanatory about the abrogation of
conscience, the rejection of social
responsibility, the premise that life is
pleasure, and the cavalier rejection of
alternative value systems.
One group for whom hippies pose


a problem is the underprivileged seg-
ment of society, and in particular the
Negro. Although one of the key clauses
in the hippie’s indictment of the
“Establishment” is the alleged “be-
trayal” of the Negro revolt, no love is
lost between Negroes and their self-
appointed hippie champions. For one
thing, it irritates underprivileged
people that pampered hippies have the
audacity to proclaim themselves the
most persecuted minority in America.
Citizens who daily experience per-
secution and indignities find bitter
irony in the monumental debates and
apologies following battles between park
commissioners and practitioners of
“acid rock,” or in the front-page head-
lines publicising occasional raids
(usually forced by complaints) against
hippies who boast of violating the law
(and who usually regale the arresting
officers with lectures about the irra-
tionality of the legal system).
The hippie’s call for services fre-
quently conflicts with the legitimate
demands of groups who require these
same services to survive. Mark Harris,
discussing the Haight-Ashbury com-
munity in the “Atlantic Monthly,”
notes that “Negro tenants desired the
attention of the health department,
desired the attention of agencies whom
hippies monopolised with appeals for
food and housing for the ‘summer of
love.’ ” The needs of the Negroes,
especially for jobs, appeared to Negroes
a great deal more urgent than the needs
of white middle-class hippies who had
dropped out of affluence to play games
of poverty in San Francisco. “Things
should be given away free,” said a
Negro man in a public debate, “to
people that really need them.”
The hippie’s temporary self-exile into
the gutter can be an unconvincing per-
formance to a ghetto audience. “The
hippies really bug us,” one young Negro
explained to a reporter, “because we
know they can come down here and
play their games for a while and
escape.” “After the hippies go back to
their middle-class homes,” declared
another Negro observer, “we’ll still be
here.”
The hippie, like his cousin the New
Left, has a penchant for assuming that
he is spiritually related to people who
view him as a freak. At a recent
neighborhood “happening,” a hippie
was assaulted when he shouldered up
to a Negro teenager and declared his
affinity for “soul music.” Other well-
meaning hippies recently appeared in a
Negro housing development in Newark
to stage a “be-in,” at which they dis-
tributed leaflets, flowers, and groceries.
Their reception was far from enthusi-
astic. One Negro woman commented to
a hippie, “I don’t know if it’s going
to do us any good to have people like
you on our side.”
What, then, is the positive message
of the hippie, stripped of connotations
assigned to it by the hangup? It seems
that two themes, which run through the
hippies’ world view, principally govern
their conduct. Both themes permeate
almost every aspect of hippie life; but
neither is seriously taken into account
by victims of the hippie hangup. The
first can be described as chronic
passivity in relation to the stream of
life. Part of what it involved here is
a stance of dependence, a willingness
to let chance or the conduct of others
determine one’s fate, a blind confidence
that some provision will be made for
one’s survival and welfare. Descriptions
of life in hippie communes, such as a
recent article in the New York “Times,”
stress that the members never worry
about rent money or food; “somehow”
these commodities are expected to
materialise. “Look’s” William Hedge-
peth mentions a pair of hippies who
“had less than a dollar between them
and were going to be evicted from their
pad the next day, along with about 30
others”; the point being that “it didn’t
seem to bother them.” Another of
Hedgepeth’s hippies had a revealing
routine: he would go out and earn
money, give it away, and then “come
home and mope hungrily until someone
gave him some food.” Hedgepeth once
asked a hippie what time it was and
was told, “we never know.” Other
“I’ve got a son in there somewhere!”
observers have encountered hippies who
are completely disoriented, both in time
and space.
The second recurrent theme in the
hippie world view is that of irrespon-
sibility, of freedom from obligations.
“The general motto in all things,”
writes Hedgepeth, “is, ‘Don’t do it if
it doesn’t groove ya.’ ” The assumption
that one’s pleasure is the sole guide to
acceptable conduct is elaborately
rationalised in ways that appeal to the
hippie hangup. One version is that
pleasure must have spiritual, trans-
cendental or revolutionary implications*
In the words of one female hippie,
“Whatever turns me on is a sacra-
ment.” Guru Leary has stated the case
with more circumlocutions, but the
principle is the same.
Another rationalisation, more power-
ful because it appeals to guilt and
frustration, and because it builds on
the noncontroversial premise that con-
ventions are time-bound, equates the
social contract with puritanism, re-
sponsibility with enslavement, obliga-
tions with self-obliteration. The argu-
ment maintains that self-indulgence is
a principled revolt against conventions
designed to destroy the individual who-
submits to them.
One aspect of this outlook is the
hedonistic ethic. Joan Didion, in her
“Post” article, relates a conversation
with a hippie who expressed extreme
pride in his freedom from the cus-
tomary social amenities:
I’ve had this old lady for a couple
of months now, maybe she makes some-
thing special for my dinner, and I
come in three days late and tell her
I’ve been with some other chick, well,
maybe she shouts a little, but then I
say, “That’s me, baby,” and she laughs
and says, “That’s you, Max” Max
says it works both ways. “I mean, if
she comes in and tells me she wants
to have Don, maybe, I say, ‘OK, baby,
it’s your trip ’ ”
This orientation makes relationships
self-centred, but does not completely
rule out altruistic conduct. Hippies
make a point, for instance, of sharing
means of subsistence (includings drugs)
with others. It is no coincidence, how-
ever, that the beneficiaries of this
altruism are fellow hippies, who can be
expected to reciprocate when today’s
philanthropist becomes tomorrow’s
mendicant. Altruism thus becomes a
kind of insurance.
The second aspect 'of irresponsibility
removes legitimacy from rules govern-
ing individual conduct. Galahad, a
New York hippie, states this principle
as “God is the only one who makes
rules that you can’t break.” The
premise that circumscription is an in-
tolerable imposition with the evan-
escent exception of regulation governing
man in his natural state is a per-
sonal stratagem, not the philosophical
ideal discussed by victims of the hang-
up. Hippies as individuals reject limi-
tations on their pursuit of pleasure, and
eventually learn to defend this action
by invoking libertarian and anti-tyran-
nical slogans. This sequence becomes


obvious when hippies discuss their moti-
vations for “dropping out,” as in the
following interview by Miss Didion:
“My parents said I had to go to
church,” Debbie says. “And they
wouldn’t let me dress the way I
wanted. In the seventh grade my skirts
were longer than anybody’s - it got
better in eighth grade, but still.”
“Your mother was kind of a bum-
mer,” Jeff says to her.
“They didn’t like Jeff. They didn’t
like my girlfriends. I had a C average
and my father told me I couldn’t date
until I raised it, and that bugged me a
lot, too.”
“My mother was just a genuine all-
American bitch,” Jeff says. “She was
really troublesome about hair. Also, she
didn’t like boots. It was really weird.”
“Tell about the chores,” Debbie says.
“For example, I had chores. If I
didn’t finish ironing my shirts for the
week, I couldn’t go out for the week-
end. It was weird. Wow.”
The average non-adolescent wonders
how whims involving seemingly petty
activities can turn into matters of such
momentous principle. Surely, no one
leaves home over issues such as the
length of skirts or the haircuts of their
friends?
But they do. And on reflection, it
is obvious that they must. For it is
a fact that what to us are caprices, to
the adolescent are the testing grounds
of his identity. And what to us are
minor interferences, to the adolescent
are the symbols of a forced return to
childhood. And paradoxically, the
problem is especially acute for the
permissively brought up, middle-class
youngster a category from which
most hippies derive.
Spoiling instils expectations of un-
fettered freedom and unconditional
reward. It ensures that the world view
from the crib will last undisturbed
through sobering experiences that
usually overlay infancy with the veneers
of civilisation. It results in physically
mature biological products without the
psychological disposition to match
adults who expect to be cared for, who
see no occasion to expend effort, who
cannot compromise their own desires,
who are unable to join in co-operative
efforts.
This orientation creates intense
problems at adolescence, the age at
which the satellite role of the child
must be transmuted into the independ-
ent self of the adult, which can be
sure of its own existence, which can
belong without merging, which can
assert without monopolising, which can
give and take without bargaining. The
spoiled child feels this need most
acutely, because it has learned to
regard itself as supremely important.
And whereas the spoiled child continues
to operate on the assumption that the
universe exists to provide him with
pleasure, he now also feels that he
should be permitted to call the shots.
In other words, the spoiled child’s
self-perceived status of super-adult-
hood occasions a strident demand for
power and freedom. As the spoiled child
sees it, adolescence must bring auto-
nomy without delay or compromise.
But at the same time, the spoiled child
cannot give up (as it implicitly must)
its advantage as a perennial dependent,
an object, a passive consumer of the
efforts of others, a bloated protoplasm
perched in wait for the charitable
breast.
The diagnosis of hippiedom as a per-
petuation of infancy would come as no
surprise to the hippies themselves. Hip-
pies constantly refer to themselves
both literally and metaphorically
as young. The very term “flower chil-
dren” carries this connotation. So do
such hippie slogans as “the psychedelic
baby eats the cybernetic monster,” and
hippie references to productivity
(“creation is play”) and to the benefits
of the drug experience (“You die and
you are reborn as a child. We’re all
really like children”; “It’s like seeing
the world again through a child’s eyes,”
etc.). What hippies do not make ex-
plicit, and may not understand, is that
a perpetuated childhood has psycho-
logical attributes other than openness
and innocence and that these may
negate the claim to adult identity.
For the main fact of hippie life is
that the prescription is not feasible. No
matter what shape it takes, the com-
bination of super-adult expectations and
infantile strivings cannot be satisfied
and, possibly as a result, becomes in-
satiable. Hence, the displays of osten-
tatious dress combined with the pro-
claimed desire for anonymity; the ob-
session with control and power com-
bined with passivity in relation to
means of subsistence; the rejection of
reality and the claim to perceptiveness;
the rejection of ethics and the vaunted
honesty; the insistence on “doing one’s
thing” and the intolerance of other
people’s values; the assertion of self-
lessness in connection with blatantly
self-indulgent conduct. These para-
doxes expose the futility of the spoiled
adolescent’s effort to play at being
mature. Their sum —the world of the
hippie—is a distorted nursery, with
defiant and militant overtones.
Analysis of the hippie syndrome not
only suggests that it is a psychological
monstrosity but also that it is difficult
to accommodate as a social pheno-
menon. The hippies, after all, accept
even demand social services,
while rejecting the desirability of mak-
ing a contribution to the economy.
The aspect of society that calls
for productivity ,is characterised as the
“Establishment,” and comprises brutal
police, compromising liberals, draft
boards, men in flannel suits, hucksters,
hypocrites, multiversities, the military-
industrial complex, and other assorted
evils. This artificial split is designed to
justify “dropping out.” What it sup-
ports, however, is a new type of social
membership consuming but non-
contributing. Real “dropping out”
would abrogate the social contract (the
arrangement by which, in the words of
Rousseau, “each citizen necessarily
submits to the conditions which he
imposes on his neighbor,” and vice
versa). A complete escape from the
“soul-destroying Establishment” would
entail breaking from the participating
privileges and life-facilitating com-
modities that are contractually avail-
able through membership; it would
require the renunciation of sustenance,
protection, legal recourse, and a voice
in the public forum. By refusing to
“drop out” of the succoring com-
munity, the hippies are requesting a
marriage of convenience to a com-
munity in which they insist they do
not belong an ad hoc alliance that
has a parasitic and one-way character.
Why is this pattern not understood —
is in fact, obfuscated —by victims of the
hippie hangup? One reason, certainly,
is that many people find they can pro-
ject into the idealised hippie their dis-
satisfactions with their own lives and
with our imperfect social structure. By
taking the hippie’s slogans seriously, by
systematising his inarticulate rational-
isations, by toning down his totalism,
we arrive at statements of our own
discontents, and can point to the hippie
as a living barometer of our concerns.
The hippie also provides a subculture
in which we can selectively satisfy our
own infantile impulses with a pretence
of respectability. We can become
tourists in a community of self-
indulgence, shoppers in a cafeteria of
irresponsibility. The hippie makes it
possible for the middle-class drug ex-
perimenter to define himself as a
reality-seeker or an amateur anthro-
pologist; it redefines promiscuity as an
ethical revolution; it widens the defini-
tion of creativity and spontaneity to in-
clude doodling, and converts sordidly
self-demeaning lapses into romantic ad-
ventures of the spirit.
Finally, the hippie hangup redirects
attention from individual and social
problems whose solution is difficult, to
pseudo-problems that require no con-
suming commitment. Inequities in
society can be abandoned to the myth
of individual impotence; institutional
deficits can be shelved, pending
spiritual conversions; personal isolation
becomes a metaphysical fact, and inter-
personal deficiences are elevated to a
natural condition. Self-centredness, in-
sensitivity, nonparticipation, fatalism,
are all justified, if one accepts the hip-
pie diagnosis that we have reached a
cul-de-sac in social evolution. And one
can then go blindly about the business
of increasing freedom where it is al-
ready abused, while ignoring it where
none is available; one can evolve sterile
abstractions that disguise concrete
needs, and one can pretend that the
hippie hangup provides society with a
licence to concern itself with its navel
while ignoring the fact that the body
politic is rotting away.


Why girls leave home
PINKY CAMP .. .living happily ever after with her leather-jacketed, boyfriend
By SANDRA HALL
THE BEATLES sing a plaintive song
about a girl leaving home. Sometimes
it happens this way, with sorrow on
both sides, but there are many ways
to independence. It can demand a
long, brave leap . and it can arrive
unwanted.
PINKY CAMP was 17 and had been
secretly married for a week when she
saw her husband killed in a motor-
cycle race at Oran Park.
After that she lived at home with
her father her parents had separa-
ted but she moved out once she
turned 18. It got too much for me, so
I left.”
There is a gum-chewing cheerful-
ness about her as she talks about all
this. There is no rancor (“my father’s
fantastic —he understands”) but a
disarming frankness instead, and a
tacit faith that everything will be all
right in the end and that she will
live happily ever after with her
leather-jacketed boyfriend.
Her real name is Cherrie Christine,
but her mother started calling her
Pinky when she was five. She thinks it’s
a cute name and, in fact, it has gradu-
ally become more than that. It has
become an identity. A pink bow is
perched in her bright blonde hair, she
is wearing a pink blouse, pink jacket,
white boots, and around her neck there
is a silver chain with a silver heart
which says “Pinky” in engraved script.
She is just 21 and is awaiting the
birth of her baby at a home for
unmarried mothers. “It’s a good place.
You do domestic work for £8 a week
and have your own quarters. I’m goin’
to keep the baby. My boyfriend and
I are goin’ to get married.
“It’s not the first baby, you know.
I was pregnant when Larry got killed,
and I lost it.
“If anyone takes this one away, they’ll
take me with it. After I lost the other
one, I got a split personality with the
shock and everything. I had more
matureness when I was 16 than I have
now. After the baby, it was like all that
matureness floated away. I’m talking
serious to you now, but when I’m with
the kids I like to look young, talk
young, and not act serious.” After
Pinky left home, she went to live alone
at North Sydney and worked in an
office (“I wasn’t very good at that”),
in a laundry, as a waitress, and as a
domestic, until she finally landed a job
as a go-go dancer in a Kings Cross
Club.
“At the start, I used to dance out at
Luna Park in front of a juke box —•
Limbo Rock, the twist, the shake all
the modern dances. Later on I worked
the RSL clubs, too.”
Then Royal Easter Show time came
round, and she joined a travelling
variety show.
“I did the Dance of the Seven Veils
and a lot of other dances. There were
other girls in the show, too one that
used to get her head cut off and another
who told fortunes.
“But after a while I was, like, the
star. I got £75 a week and I had three
different costumes —an Egyptian one for
the Seven Veils, a fringed dress for the
go-go, and slacks for the twist. Every-
thing was pink. The other girls got
jealous of me.”
Pinky met her boyfriend one night in


Kings Cross. She was looking at his
motorcycle when he introduced himself
as its owner and they began going out
together.
“We got closer and closer, then I
went to live with him as his de facto
in this house he had. It was a real nice
house. A lot of people think bikeys
aren’t clean because they wear leather
jackets and ‘bodgie’ hairdos, but you
should see inside their houses they’re
spotless.
“But we started having arguments,
because he kept havin’ his mates over
all the time and they’d bring their pick-
ups. We broke up for a while, but we’re
back together now, and everything’s
fine.”
MARGERY DAVIS, who appears
on our cover, is a 22-year-old journalist,
and when she left home to share a flat
with another girl she intended to stay
a week, then go back to her parents.
But she found that flat life in the
raffishness of Sydney’s The Rocks area
had more appeal than Northbridge
comfort, and the week has lengthened
to five months. The other girl has
moved away, while Margery has
changed flats, so that she now occupies
a basement across the street from The
Hero of Waterloo.
“I’d probably go back home if I had
to move away from The Rocks. The
area and the way that I’ve accumu-
lated so many possessions are my main
reasons for living alone.”
The walls are hung with paintings,
covered with posters, sketches, and
illustrated aphorisms. The latter are the
work of the basement’s last tenant,
Murdo Morrison, the painter, who is
also responsible for the trail of white
paint meandering tortuously down the
laneway outside to the front gate.
There’s a bright kitchen looking out
on to a small backyard, a large bed-
sitting room, and a door opens on to a
passageway which leads to a stone-
walled bathroom. An old-fashioned
black fuel stove is set into a wall recess
in the sitting-room, there’s a Chinese
embroidery on the wall, and a Persian
carpet on the floor.
“I got the carpet for sl3 at an
auction and the embroidery at another
auction,” Margery said. “In the old
days* this place used to be a pub called
The Whalers’ Arms, and there’s a
tunnel behind this wall which leads to
the cellar of The Hero of Waterloo.
The story is that the two families were
feuding, but the son of the owner of
The Hero fell in love with the daughter
of The Arms’ owner. The boy used to
use the tunnel to come here to see her,
and one day he was found out and
killed in it. We’re not sure if it’s true
or not, but it’s a very good story.
“Murdo lived here for four years,
and I had quite a battle to get the place
when he left. A few people were after
it. In fact, I nearly lost out to a Scots-
man. Murdo was born under the sign
of Cancer and so was I. There are a
lot of Cancers living in The Rocks.”
TERRI SCHMIDT. .. “I’ve always looked older than my age”
Although they have never said so,
Margery suspects her parents may
feel “they’ve failed somewhere,” be-
cause of her decision to live alone.
“But, really, it’s not like that. It’s
a matter of the possessions. My mother
has Thai silk and antique furniture,
which I like very much, but it’s not
quite the same. I don’t suppose you
should get too involved with things,
really, although it does seem a fairly
simple way to be happy.
“I’m hardly ever lonely. I have
friends and I work. Among other
things, I make jewellery. When I’m
hung up about something, it turns into
little pieces of filigree, but when I’m
happy, I make bolder stuff in copper.,
“At home there was always television
to distract me, since I’m an addict.
While I’ve been here, I’ve been work-
ing harder, especially at my writing.”
TERRI SCHMIDT had run away
from home twice before she made a
more successful job of it at the age
of 15.
She wanted to go to New Zealand
as far away from her home in
Adelaide as possible, but she had little
money left by the time she left the
train at North Sydney station. Now
18, she is a calm, intelligent girl who
writes poetry and talks dispassionately
about her relationship with her family.
“We had no open arguments. That
was it, really. We just didn’t communi-
cate. I ran away the first time when
I was nine. They caught me after a
couple of hours I hadn’t gone very
far, because I was just walking along
the road. The next time when I was
II I stayed away a couple of days,
sleeping in an old car at the back of
a picture theatre.
Once in Sydney, she took a room in
a boarding-house and drifted from job-
to job. She was a little lonely, but
made friends, and few people realised
how young she was. “I’ve always looked
older than my age. I was a bit shy,
but I met some people in the Cross.
“I’ve hitch-hiked to Melbourne a
few times and stayed there for six
months at one stage. A friend and I
hitch-hiked to Mount Isa, too. We got
picked up for vagrancy that time. But
when I get tired of a place I like to
move on. I’m going north in the
middle of January with somebody else
I know.”
To Terri, living life as she chooses
to live it, vagrancy charges are incon-
veniently frequent interruptions. The
last one ended with a term at Parra-
matta Training School for Girls.
“It’s all right if you keep to the rules.
Some of the girls aren’t too bad, and the
others don’t bother you if you mind
your own business. Another girl and I


were sent to foster parents after that, but
there were a lot of little things we
couldn’t get used to and we ran away.
We’ve since made it up with the people.
It’s just that after'being on my own for
so long I can’t get used to the restric-
tions of living with a family again.
“I’ve been back to Adelaide once to
see my parents. I could never go back
there to live, but at least we’ve estab-
lished contact again.”
Terri’s parents wanted her to be a
nurse, she didn’t, and has never had the
opportunity to decide just what she does
want to do. All she knows is that she’ll
try to see as much of the world as pos-
sible, if she ever has the money.
For some girls, independence from an
older generation is also an escape from
suburbia. When CATHLEEN BURN-
ESS’ parents went to live in Newcastle,
she stayed with relatives in an outer
Sydney suburb so she could go on
with her course at the National Art
School. But at 18 she decided there
was too great a gap between her gener-
ation and theirs and that she was living
too far away from her friends and the
things which were important to her.
“I had to move out and have some
kind of feeling of independence,” she
said. “I might make the wrong deci-
sions, but at least they’d be my own.”
As an intermediate step, she moved
In temporarily with a cousin living
closer to the city, then shared a flat
with a group of girls at Rose Bay, but
the latter had elements of the suburbia
she was trying to leave behind.
“Everything was strictly regimented.
You took turns at cooking, cleaning,
and so on. We do that now, but we
don’t make rules about it. If one of
us has a lot of work to do, the other
will help out by cooking an extra
meal. But those girls didn’t.
“And I didn’t like Rose Bay, either.
The people there aren’t exactly at the
top, but they’re a long way from the
bottom, and they seem to be struggling
to climb further up. I had the feeling
that everybody was desperately inter-
ested in what everybody else was
doing.”
Five months ago, Cathleen found
the type of home she was looking for,
a Surry Hills terrace house which
she shares with another girl.
“There are a lot of people from Art
School living around here, but more
important than that it’s very con-
venient to the city. And everyone
minds their own business here.
“When I decided to take a flat,
people said to me, ‘You won’t like
having to do everything for yourself,’
but I haven’t minded. I haven’t
minded sharing with other girls, either,
except for the first flat. I suppose I
could live with anyone, but I wouldn’t
enjoy it. I’ve just been lucky in find-
ing people I get along with.”
JULIE McNAUGHT is 19, nervous,
and desperately anxious to convey the
fact that she has been entirely to blame
for the things that have gone wrong
in her life.
“It’s been my fault make no
mistake about that. I just wasn’t will-
ing to meet my parents halfway. I’m
bone lazy. My brother and sister are
the brains, and I’m hopeless. If I’d
knuckled under and done more at
school, I’d have been a lot happier
now. I liked school and I would have
liked to stay on, but my parents
thought my younger sister should have
a chance, as I’d messed mine up.”
She took a job as a jillaroo on a
station, and when she was fired for
taking a day off without permission
she was too afraid to go home. She
went back to her home town but did
not contact her parents.
“They wanted me to come home at
first, but I wouldn’t. Then I started
running up their charge accounts,
embarrassing them, until I finally de-
cided it would be better for everybody
if I left the town, so I came to
Sydney.”
She has had the usual assortment of
jobs waitress, dishwasher, mail
sorter and a variety of addresses.
“I’ve been through the hippie bit. At
one time I lived with 14 other kids in
one room. Four of us were working
and we’d share our money with the
ones who weren’t. I’m not working now,
but I get 2/- a day from kids I’ve
given money to.”
She has just been evicted from a
room because she didn’t pay the rent
and is now living with a friend whose
husband is at sea. “See what I mean
about being lazy. I knew the rent was
coming up, but I wouldn’t do anything
about getting the money to pay it. I
wander round the Cross all day, yet
it hangs me up, because I haven’t got
any money.
“I bet you haven’t met a bird like
me before,” she says with bitterness.
“I suppose you’re shocked.”
But the bitterness and the nerves
CATHLEEN BURN ESS ... escap-
ing from suburbia
don’t quite cancel out the sensitivity.
“I’m too easy-going. You can ask any-
one round here. I’ve been taken in
again and again by people. You’d think
I’d have learned by now.”
She .wrote to her father a year ago,
asking him how she could win back
her mother’s respect. The answer was
predictable get a job. She tried for
a while, but her natural enemy, laziness,
intervened again. She’d given up all
hope of a reconciliation with her
parents, but a letter arrived from her
father the other day.
YVETTE BRADY is 20, dark-eyed,
mini-skirted, with a soft, breathless
voice and enthusiasm about everything
from rhythm and blues to photography
and chihuahuas.
She left her home in Canberra un-
dramatically ten months ago, more
from necessity than desire, since the
company she worked for was moving to
Sydney. But after two weeks of anxious
searching she found herself a $6 room
in a Paddington terrace house and was
soon very happy about the results of her
first bout with self-sufficiency.
Right now she’s busily taking music
lessons and trying to save enough
money to get her to England, where
she wants to become a rhythm and
blues singer.
“The idea is that we find a group,”
her boyfriend, Peter, explains eagerly,
“and she’ll sing and play the organ.
She’s learning the piano at the moment,
so that she can go on to learning the
organ later. But we have to go away.
After all, how far can you get in a
country which has Little Pattie as its
top female pop singer?” he finishes
mournfully.
Meanwhile, Yvette has her job as a
photographer. “I love photography, and
I’ll always keep on doing it, but some-
times you just feel like a change.”
But change won’t be approaching for
some time yet, and Yvette is happily in-
volved in life in Paddington. She has
made friends with the other terrace-
house tenants, adapted herself to cook-
ing and cleaning her room, and bought
herself two chihuahuas for company.
“I thought we might call her Apples.
What do you think?” she says, pointing
to a ten-week-old canine bundle which
is squatting on the floor, wagging its
tail in a Lilliputian parody of a dog.
“She eats twice as much as an ordin-
ary sized dog, you know. When I was
living at home I thought nothing of
leaving half a meal. It didn’t matter if
it was rump steak. That’s something
I’ve changed my mind about. I’m not
doing badly with money, though.
“My sister’s travelling on the Con-
tinent at the moment, doing all kinds
of fantastic things. She got thrown out
of the Vatican for wearing a mini-
skirt.
“But she’s coming back soon, and
we’re going to take a flat together. I’ll
miss my room, though. The landlady’s
marvellous she never interferes, and
she doesn’t mind a bit about the dogs.
I’ve been very lucky, really.”




Why Australia should have its own space program
By PHILIP CHAPMAN
AUSTRALIA’S first satellite
WRESAT, has now burnt itself put
re-entering the Earth’s atmosphere. All
that remains is the prestige of being
the fourth country, after the United
States, Russia, and France, to have
launched a satellite from its own
territory. Until financial decisions are
made in Canberra, WRESAT remains
a one-shot affair.
However, as the space age enters
its second decade (the first Russian
Sputnik was launched just over ten
years ago), it is time for Australia to
look at the practical advanatges, and
not just the prestige, of a coherent,
long-term space program.
Australia has to date played a mean-
ingful if limited part in the achieve-
ments of the first ten years of the
space age, with WRESAT, by giving
tracking and telemetry support to the,
American program and by providing
launch services at Woomera for the
European program. However, ELDO is
now in process of moving its launch
operations to French Guiana; this
requires a reappraisal of our role in
space.
There are few countries which can
benefit as readily from the new capa-
bilities afforded by space technology
as Australia, and there is already simply
no other economically competitive way
of providing many essential services.
Meteorological satellites are of par-
ticular value to a large, sparsely popu-
lated country, where it is difficult and
costly to obtain a sufficient number of
synoptic ground-based observations for
weather-forecasting. Observations from
space will also prove invaluable for
such Australian needs as water-
resources management and bushfire.
detection. International communications
satellites will generate an increasing
Australian involvement in world affairs;
ana domestic community-broadcast
satellites may provide the cheapest way
to expand nation-wide television cover-
age, because of the great distance
between Australian population centres.
Once it has been recognised that
Dr. Philip Chapman, born in Mel-
bourne and educated in Sydney, is the
first Australian chosen as an astronaut.
He left the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, where he was a physicist,
to join the National Aeronautics Space
Administration, and is becoming an
American citizen, as required.
Australia will need the products of
space technology, the decision which
must be taken is whether to make or
buy the tools. Traditionally, Australia
has achieved its technically sophisti-
cated way of life almost exclusively
by importing techniques or even
equipment from overseas. At first sight,
it may seem appealing from a cost
point of view to allow this to con-
tinue. I believe, however, that such
a policy is not only unnecessarily, ex-
pensive over the long term, but would
also deprive us of some of the most
important benefits of investment in
space.
In the past, Australian industry has
had the choice between manufacturing
technically complex systems under
licence or, if the production run did
not justify the initial tooling, import-
ing the system virtually complete. We
are now entering an era in which the
first of these options will often not be
available to us, unless we improve our
industrial capability, quickly and sub-
stantially.,
A good example is the- General
Dynamics F-111, which has beep
ordered by the RAAF, but which, unlike
most previous RAAF aircraft, is not
being made in Australia, mainly
because titanium technology does not
exist in the Australian aerospace indus-
try and because the rigorous manufac-
turing standards required for such sub-
systems as the inertial guidance equip-
ment are beyond us at present. It is
ironic that the main sources of the
titanium used in the F-11l are rutile
beaches of Australia.
The cost to Australia of what Lord
Casey has called “scientific colonialism”
is, therefore, increasing and goes well
beyond the initial expenditure of over-
seas credits. Except at the elementary,
black-box replacement level, mainten-
ance and modification of complex sys-
tems ai'e getting beyond us. For ex-
ample, if it is desired to use the inertial
navigation system of a high-performance
aircraft such as the Boeing supersonic
transport under conditions or for pur-
poses not contemplated by the original
designers, the expertise required to
advise on how to adapt the equipment
will not be found in Australian indus-
trial or university research laboratories,
even if the modification itself is not
impossibly difficult. In accepting a
policy of importing sophisticated sys-
tems, Australia is thus becoming de-
pendent on the availability of overseas
consulting services, as well as being
forced to wait in line for the output
of overseas production lines.
The economic aspects of this prob-
lem will be especially important in the
case of the space-related systems which
Australia will need in the future. The
reason for this is that space systems
are typically manufactured in very
small quantities, usually being tailored
for a specific application. The develop-
ment costs must, therefore, be amor-
tised over one or a few units, so that
if Australia buys such systems overseas
it will be necessary to pay for a sub-
stantial proportion of the development,
anyway. It is, therefore, clearly desir-
able to carry out as much of the
development as possible in Australia,
easing the balance of payments position
and acquiring an important engineer-
ing capability along with the equip-
ment.
In the past, one of the principal
barriers to Australian technological
development has been the lack of an
adequate domestic market for sophisti-
cated equipment. This problem does
not arise in the case of many types
of space systems, because of the small
production quantities involved. Aus-
tralian investment in space technology
could therefore be of real help in
enabling the nation to develop the
technological maturity .which is essen-
tial in order to play hn independent
role among the advanced countries.
Such a program could lead eventually
not only to reduced costs for indi-
vidual space systems but also to an
upgrading of Australian technical
capacity in many areas. The costs of
a space program should be regarded as
an investment in a broad Australian
technological base, and should not be
evaluated only in terms of the immedi-
ate practical and scientific returns
from the space systems themselves.
I am convinced that a vigorous,
independent space program could be
of direct and lasting practical benefit
to Australia, but there are less tangible
values as well in a national commit-
ment to advanced technology which
might, in the long run, prove of even
greater importance. Such a program,
if well conceived and forcefully
directed, can breed acceptance of tech-
nical innovation and provide a stimu-
lus to educational and cultural
development.
At the present time, young people
in Australia have little incentive to
undertake advanced training, especi-
ally in engineering, unless they are
prepared to emigrate. The situation is
a little better in the sciences, but even
here opportunities and rewards are
generally limited.
It is, of course, true that CSIRO has
developed a world reputation in cer-
tain fields, notably radio astronomy and
agricultural research, but the univer-
sity and industrial laboratories are
typically starved for research funds.
The resulting brain drain is very prop-
erly a matter of current concern, but
it cannot be checked by legislation,
which affects only the symptoms and not
the cause, without imposing injustice
and hardship on the people concerned.
Australia is a large country with a
very small population, and the pro-
vision of essential social services, roads,
and other facilities, etc., is very ex-
pensive on a per capita basis. The Aus-
tralian taxpayer is understandably re-
luctant to see public expenditures on
research, the returns from which can-
not be precisely predicted in advance.
Space research, because of its exciting
and inspiring character, can serve as
a useful tool in improving the public
relations of research as a whole, but
its benefits to the national spirit may
be far greater. The burden on the in-
dividual Australian can be relieved only
by increasing the population or the
per capita productivity. While increase
of the population, primarily through
immigration, is obviously to be encour-
aged, this cannot correct the situation
for many years to come; in the short
term, it may increase the individual’s
contribution to public expenses, be-
cause more people mean more capital
investment in facilities and services.
Improvement of productivity is thus
of vital importance to Australia, more
so than in some other countries which
have an adequate work force in re-
lation to their size. This requires that
the Australian people accept the social
consquences of automation. There must
be, for example, a continuous up-
grading of the average educational
level, so as to maintain employability
in a technically sophisticated society.
It is this type of goal which is
encouraged by a dramatic and signifi-
cant space program. 1 o be of maxi-
mum value, the program should con-
tain some projects aimed at answering
profound and transcendent questions
concerning the human condition, for
example, the search for extraterrestrial
life.
The optimal Australian space pro-
gram should thus contain a balanced
mix of cost-effective, pragmatic pro-
jects and more speculative, advanced
research activities. It is a mistake to
demand that all projects be self-
supporting in terms of direct financial
return. Emphasis should be on projects
offering the greatest technical challenge
and room for innovation, without
laboriously traversing ground already
covered by others; for instance, the
development of spacecraft currently
offers far more opportunities than the
development of boosters.
As an example of a practical pro-
ject, I would suggest an Australian
synchronous satellite for domestic
communications or weather observa-
tions and bushfire patrol, tailored for
Australian needs in terms of coverage
and capacity. The possibility of a
community-broadcast television satel-
lite should also be taken into account
before planning any major expansion or
change (such as the transition to
colorcasting) of the existing Australian
television system.
As far as research programs are
concerned, missions should be selected
only after consultation with other
spacefaring nations, so that co-operative
projects may be arranged to supple-
ment, rather than compete with, the
efforts of others, and so as to maxi-
mise the significance of a relatively
small-scale Australian contribution. At
present, co-operation with the U.S. un-
manned planetary exploration pro-
gram may offer particularly interesting
possibilities.
It is my hope that, when we come
to the end of the second decade of the
space era, Australia will have assumed
a leading role in space research among
the smaller nations. We have the
latent technical capability and our
economic and social motivation is
stronger than in most other countries.
The exploration of space is the most
significant quest which mankind has
ever undertaken; to become involved
in it could give new meaning to the
life of the nation.
A remote-control camera catches the
moment when the Redstone, capped
by the Australian satellite, WRESAT,
blasts off from the Woomera launch
pad


REPORT
FROM IRON MOUNTAIN
This is the second of three instalments from the book
“Report from Iron Mountain on the Possibility and Desirability of Peace ” by Leonard C. Lewin
A fable disguised as fact, “Iron Mountain” is a social commentary on a world apparently
unable to afford the price of peace. Last week the author purported to have uncovered the
existence of a Special Study Group whose 15 expert members met for 2i years
and concluded that lasting peace, while probably unattainable, would not be in the best
interests of society. Source of the report, which continues here, was claimed to
be a member of the Group, a professor identified only as “John Doe” who was unwilling to be
a party to suppression of the findings.
IT IS OBVIOUS to any layman that
the economic patterns of a warless
world will be drastically different from
those we live with today, and it is
equally obvious that the political rela-
tionships of nations will not be those
we have learned to take for granted,
sometimes described as a global version
of the adversary system of our common
law. But the social implications of
peace extend far beyond its putative
effects on national economies and inter-
national relations. As we shall show,
the relevance of peace and war to the
internal political organisation of
to the sociological relation-
ships of their members, to psychological
motivations, to ecological processes, and
to cultural values is equally profound.
More important, it is equally critical
in assaying the consequences' of a
transition to peace, and in determining
the feasibility of any transition at all.
It is not surprising that these less
obvious factors have been generally
ignored in peace research. They have
not lent themselves to systematic
analysis. They are “intangibles,” but
only in the sense that abstract concepts
in mathematics are intangible com-
pared to those which can be quantified.
We do not claim that we have dis-
covered an infallible way of measuring
these other factors, or of assigning them
precise weights in the equation of transi-
tion. But we have removed them from
the category of the “intangible” and
brought them out into the realm of the
objective. The result, we believe, pro-
vides a context of realism for the dis-
cussion of the issues relating to the
possible transition to peace which up
to now has been missing.
DISARMAMENT AND THE
ECONOMY
The first factor is that of size. The
“world war industry,” as one writer
has aptly called it, accounts for approxi-
mately a tenth of the output of the
world’s total economy. Although this
figure is subject to fluctuation, the
causes of which are themselves subject
to regional variation, it tends to hold
fairly steady. The United States, as the
world’s richest nation, not only accounts
for the largest single share of this
expense, currently upward of $60,000,-
000,000 a year, but also “. . . has de-
voted a higher proportion [emphasis
added] of its gross national product to
its military establishment than any other
major free-world nation. This was true
even before our increased expenditures
in South-East Asia.”
Conversion of military expenditures
to other purposes entails , a number of
difficulties. The most serious stems from
the degree of rigid specialisation that
characterises modern war production,
best exemplified in nuclear and missile
technology. This constituted no funda-
mental problem after World War 11,
nor did the question of free-market con-
sumer demand for “conventional” items
of consumption—those goods and ser-
vice consumers had already been con-
ditioned to require. Today’s situation is
qualitatively different in both respects.
This inflexibility is geographical and
occupational, as well as industrial, a
fact which has led most analysts of the
economic impact of disarmament to
focus their attention on phased plans
for the relocation of war industry per-
sonnel and capital installations as
much as on proposals for developing
new patterns of consumption. An im-
plicit presumption is made that a total
national plan for conversion differs
from a community program to cope
with the shutting down of a “defence
facility” only in degree. We find no
reason to believe that this is the case.
A national economy can absorb almost
any number of subsidiary reorganisa-
tions within its total limits, providing
there is no basic change in its own
structure. General disarmament, which
would require such 'basic changes, lends
itself to no valid smaller-scale analogy.
Even more questionable are the
models proposed for the retraining of
labor for non-armaments occupations.
Putting aside for the moment the un-
solved questions dealing with the
nature of new distribution patterns
retraining for what? the increasingly
specialised job skills associated with
war industry production are further
depreciated by the accelerating inroads
of the industrial techniques loosely
described as “automation.” It is not too
much to say that general disarmament
would require the scrapping of a criti-
cal* proportion of the most highly
developed occupational specialties in
the economy.
In general, discussions of the prob-
lems of conversion have been charac-
terised by an unwillingness to recognise
its special quality. This is best exempli-
fied by the 1965 report of the Ackley
Committee. One critic has tellingly
pointed out that it blindly assumes
that “. . . nothing in the arms economy
neither its size nor its geographical
concentration, nor its highly specialised
nature, nor the peculiarities of its
market, nor the special nature of much
of its labor force endows it with any
uniqueness when the necessary time of
adjustment comes.”
Let us assume, however, despite the
lack of evidence, that a viable program
for conversion can be developed in the
framework of the existing economy, that
the problems noted above can be solved.
What proposals have been offered for
utilising the productive capabilities that
disarmament would presumably release?
THE MOST commonly held theory is
simply that general economic reinvest-
ment would absorb the greater part of
these capabilities. Even though it is now
largely taken for granted that unprece-
dented government assistance (and con-
comitant government control) will be
needed to solve the “structural” prob-
lems of transition, a general attitude
of confidence prevails that new con-
sumption patterns will take up the slack.
One school of economists has it that
these patterns will develop on their own.
It envisages the equivalent of the arms
budget being returned, under careful
control, to the consumer, in the form
of tax cuts. Another, recognising the
undeniable need for increased “con-
sumption” in what is generally con-
sidered the public sector of the econ-
omy, stresses vastly increased govern-
ment spending in such areas of national
concern as health, education, mass trans-
portation, low-cost • housing, water
supply, control of the physical environ-
ment, and, stated generally, “poverty.”
The mechanisms proposed for con-
trolling the transition to an arms-free
economy are also traditional
changes in both sides of the Federal
budget, manipulation of interest rates,
etc. We acknowledge the undeniable
value of fiscal tools in a normal cycli-


cal economy, where they provide lever-
age to accelerate or brake an existing
trend. Their more committed propon-
ents, however, tend to lose sight of the
fact that there is a limit to the power
of these devices to influence funda-
mental economic forces. They can pro-
vide new incentives in the economy, but
they cannot in themselves transform
the production of a billion dollars’
worth of missiles a year to the
equivalent in food, clothing, prefabri-
cated houses, or television sets.
Without singling out any one of the
several major studies of the expected
impact of disarmament on the economy
for special criticism, we can summarise
our objections to them in general terms
as follows:
1. No proposed program for economic
conversion to disarmament sufficiently
takes into acount the unique magnitude
of the required adjustments that it
would entail.
2. Proposals to transform arms pro-
duction into a beneficent scheme of
public works are more the .products of
wishful thinking than of realistic under-
standing of the limits of our existing
economic system.
. 3. Fiscal and monetary measures are
inadequate as controls for the process
of transition to an arms-free economy.
4. Insufficient attention has been paid
to the political acceptability of the
objectives of the proposed conversion
models, as well as of the political means
to be employed in effectuating a transi-
tion.
5. No serious consideration has been
given, in any proposed conversion plan,
to the fundamental non-military func-
tion of war and armaments in modern
society.
DISARMAMENT SCENARIOS
Scenarios, as they have come to be
called, are hypothetical constructions of
future events. Those which have been
suggested as model, procedures for effec-
tuating international arms control and
eventual disarmament are necessarily
imaginative, although closely reasoned;
in this respect they resemble the “war
games” analyses of the Rand Corpor-
ation, with- which they share a common
conceptual origin.
All such scenarios that have been
seriously put forth imply a dependence
on bilateral or multilateral agreement
between the great powers. In general,
they call for a progressive phasing out
of gross armaments, military forces,
weapons, and weapons technology, co-
ordinated with elaborate matching pro-
cedures of verification, inspection, and
machinery for the settlement of inter-
national disputes. It should be noted
that even proponents of unilateral dis-
armament qualify their proposals with
an implied requirement of reciprocity,
very much in the manner of a scenario
of graduated response in nuclear war.
The advantage of unilateral initiative
lies in its political value as an expres-
sion of good faith, as well as in its
diplomatic function as a catalyst for
formal disarmament negotiations.
The economic implications assigned
by their authors to various disarma-
ment scenarios diverge widely. The
more conservative models emphasise
economic as well as military prudence
in postulating elaborate fail-safe dis-
armament agencies, which themselves
require expenditure substantially sub-
stituting for those of the displaced war
industries. Such programs stress the
advantages of the smaller economic
adjustment entailed. Others emphasise,
on the contrary, the magnitude (and
the opposite advantages) of the savings
to be achieved from disarmament. One
widely read analysis estimates the
annual cost of the inspection function
of general disarmament throughout the
world as only between two and three
percent of current military expendi-
tures.
Without examining disarmament
scenarios in greater detail, we may
characterise them with these general
comments.
1. Given genuine agreement of intent
among the great powers, the scheduling
of arms control and elimination
presents no inherently insurmountable
procedural problems. Any of several
proposed sequences might serve as the
basis for multilateral agreement or for
the first step in unilateral arms reduc-
tion. v
2. No major power can proceed with
such a program, however, until it has
developed an economic conversion plan
fully integrated with each phase of
disarmament. No such plan has yet
been developed in the United States.
3. Furthermore, disarmament scen-
arios, like proposals for economic con-
version, make no allowance for the
nonmilitary functions of war in modern
societies, and offer no surrogate for
these necessary functions.
WAR AND PEACE AS
SOCIAL SYSTEMS
We have dealt only sketchily with
proposed disarmament scenarios and
economic analyses, but the reason for
our seemingly casual dismissal of so
much serious and sophisticated work
lies in no disrespect for its competence.
It is rather a question of relevance.
To put it plainly, all these programs,
however detailed and well developed,
are abstractions. This is as true of
today’s complex proposals as it was of
the Abbe de St. Pierre’s “Plan for
Perpetual Peace in Europe” 250 years
ago.
Some essential element has clearly
been lacking in all these schemes. One
of our first tasks was to try to bring this
missing quality into definable focus,
and we believe we have succeeded in
doing so. We find that at the heart
of every peace study we have examined
from the modest technological pro-
posal (e.g., to convert a poison-gas plant
to the production of “socially useful”
equivalents) to the most elaborate
scenario for universal peace in our
time lies one common fundamental
misconception
It is the incorrect assumption that
war, as an institution, is subordinate
to the social systems it is believed to
serve.
Few social cliches are so unquestion-
ingly accepted as the notion that war is
an extension of diplomacy (or of
politics, or of the pursuit of economic
objectives). If this were true, it would
be wholly appropriate for economists
and political theorists to look on the
problems of transition to peace as
essentially mechanical or procedural.
And if this were true, there would be
no real substance to the difficulties of
transition. For it is evident that even in
today’s world there exists no conceiv-
able conflict of interest, real or imagin-
ary, between nations or between social
forces within nations, that cannot be
resolved without recourse to war if
such resolution were assigned a priority
of social value.
THE POINT is that the cliche is not
true, and the problems of transition are
indeed substantive rather than merely
procedural. Although war is “used” as
an instrument of national and social
policy, the fact that a society is
organised for any degree of readiness
for war supersedes its political and
economic structure. War itself is the
basic social system, within which other
secondary modes of social organisation
conflict or conspire. It is the system
which has governed most human
societies of record, as it is today.
Once this is correctly understood,
the true magnitude of the problems
entailed in a transition to peace
itself a social system, but without pre-
cedent, except in a few simple pre-
industrial societies becomes apparent.
At the same time, some of the puzzling
superficial contradictions of modern
societies can then be readily rationalised.
The “unnecessary” size and power of
the world-war industry; the pre-
eminence of the military establishment
in every society, whether open or con-
cealed; the exemption of military or
paramilitary institutions from the
accepted social and legal standards of
behaviour required elsewhere in the
society; the successful operation of the
armed forces and the armaments pro-
ducers entirely outside the framework
of each nation’s economic ground rules:
these and other ambiguities closely
associated with the relationship of war
to society are easily clarified, once the
priority of war-making potential as the
principal structuring force in society is
accepted.
It must be emphasised that the pre-
cedence of a society’s war-making
potential over its other characteristics
is not the result of the “threat” pre-
sumed to exist at any one time from
other societies. This is the reverse of
the basic situation; “threats” against
the “national interest” are usually
created or accelerated to meet the
changing needs of the war system. Only
in comparatively recent times has it
been considered politically expedient to
euphemise war budgets as “defence”
requirements. The necessity for govern-
ments to distinguish between “aggres-


sion” (bad) and “defence” (good) has
been a by-product of rising literacy and
rapid communication. The distinction is
tactical only, a concession to the grow-
ing inadequacy of ancient war-organ-
ising political rationales.
We find further that most of the
confusion surrounding the myth that
war-making is a tool of State policy
stems from a general misapprehension
of the functions of war. In general,
these are conceived as: to defend a
nation from military attack by another,
or to deter such an attack; to defend
or advance a “national interest”
economic, political, ideological; to
maintain or increase a nation’s military
power for its own sake. These are the
visible, or ostensible, functions of war.
If there were no others, the importance
of the war establishment in each
society might in fact decline to the
subordinate level it is believed to
occupy.
But there are broader, more pro-
foundly felt functions of war in modern
societies. It is these invisible, or implied,
functions that maintain war-readiness
as the dominant force in our societies.
And it is the unwillingness or inability
of the writers of disarmament scenarios
and reconversion plans to take them
into account that has so reduced the
usefulness of their work, and that has
made it seem unrelated to the world
we know.
THE FUNCTIONS OF WAR
We propose here to examine these
non-military functions to the extent
that they bear on the problems of
transition to peace for our society.
The military, or ostensible, function
of the war system requires no elabora-
tion. It is often necessary for a national
military establishment to create a need
for its unique powers to maintain
the franchise, so to speak. And a
healthy military apparatus requires
regular “exercises,” by whatever
rationale seems expedient, to prevent
its atrophy.
The non-military functions of the
war system are more basic. They exist
not merely to justify themselves but
to serve broader social purposes. If
and when war is eliminated, the mili-
tary functions it has served will end
with it. But its non-military functions
will not. It is essential, therefore, that
we understand their significance before
we can reasonably expect to evaluate
whatever institutions may be proposed
to replace them.
Economic
The production of weapons of mass
destruction has always been associated
with economic “waste.” The term is
pejorative, since it implies a failure of
function. But no human activity can
properly be considered wasteful if it
achieves its contextual objective. “. . .
The attacks that, since the time of
Samuel’s criticism of King Saul, have
been levelled against military expendi-
tures as waste may well have concealed
or misunderstood the point that some
kinds of waste may have a larger social
utility.”
In the case of military “waste,” there
is indeed a larger social utility. It
derives from the fact that the “wasteful-
ness” of war production is exercised
entirely outside the framework of the
economy of supply and demand. As
such, it provides the only critically
large segment of the total economy that
is subject to complete and arbitrary
central control. If modern industrial
societies can be defined as those which
have developed the capacity to produce
more than is required for their
economic survival (regardless of the
equities of distribution of goods within
them), military spending can be said
to furnish the only balance-wheel with
sufficient inertia to stabilise the advance
of their economies.
THIS FUNCTION is often viewed,
over-simply, as a device for the control
of surpluses. One writer on the subject
puts it this way: “Why is war so
wonderful? Because it creates artificial
demand . . . the only kind of artificial
demand, moreover, that does not raise
any political issues: war, and only war,
solves the problem of inventorj.” The
reference here is to shooting war, but
it applies equally to the general war
economy as well. “It is generally
agreed,” concludes, more cautiously, the
report of a panel set up by the U.S.
Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency, “that the greatly enlarged
public sector since World ,War 11,
resulting from heavy defence expendi-
tures, has provided additional protection
against depressions, since this sector is
not responsive to contraction in the
private sector, and provides a sort of
buffer or balance-wheel in the
economy.”
BUT EVEN in the- context of the gen-
eral civilian economy, war cannot be
considered wholly “wasteful.” Without
a long-established war economy, and
without its frequent eruption into large-
scale shooting war, most of the major
industrial advances known to history,
beginning with the development of iron,
could never have taken place. Weapons
technology structures the economy.
According to the writer cited above,
“Nothing is more ironic or revealing
about our society than the fact that
hugely destructive war is a very pro-
gressive force in it . . . War production
is progressive because it is production
that would not otherwise have taken
place, (It is not so widely appreciated,
for example, that the civilian standard
of living rose during Wordl War II.)”
This is not “ironic or revealing,” but
essentially a simple statement of fact.
War spending, considered pragma-
tically, has been a consistenly positive
factor in the rise of gross national pro-
duct and of individual productivity. A
former Secretary of the Army has care-
fully phrased it for public consump-
tion thus: “If there is, as I suspect
there is, a direct relation between the
stimulus of large defence spending and
a substantially increased rate of growth
of gross national product, it quite
simply follows that defence spending
per se might be countenanced on
economic grounds alone (emphasis
added) as a stimulator of the national
metabolism.” Actually, the fundamental
non-military utility of war in the
economy is far more widely acknow-
ledged than the scarcity of such affir-
mations as that quoted above would
suggest.
But negatively phrased public recog-
nitions of the importance of war to the
general economy abound. The most
familiar example is the effect of “peace
threats” on the stockmarket; e.g.,
“Wall Street was shaken yesterday by
news of an apparent peace feeler from
North Vietnam, but swiftly recovered
its composure after about an hour of
sometimes indiscriminate selling.”
Other incidental examples are to be
found in the pressure brought to bear
on the Department of Defence when it
announces plans to close down an
obsolete facility (as a “wasteful” form
of “waste”), and in the usual co-
ordination of stepped-up military
activities (as in Vietnam in 1965) with
dangerously rising unemployment rates.
Although we do not imply that a sub-
stitute for war in the economy cannot
be devised, no combination of tech-
niques for controlling employment,
production, and consumption has yet
been tested that can remotely com-
pare to it in effectiveness.
Political
The political functions of war- are
essentially organisational. First of all,
the existence of a society as a political
“nation” requires as part of its defini-
tion an attitude of relationship toward
other “nations.” This is what we usually
call a foreign policy. But a nation’s
foreign policy can have no substance
if it lacks the means of enforcing its
attitude toward other nations which
is to say that it is organised to some
degree for war. War, then, as we have
defined it to include all national activi-
ties that recognise the possibility of
armed conflict, is itself the defining
element of any nation’s existence vis-a-
vis any other nation. Since it is historic-
ally axiomatic that the existence of
any form of weaponry insures its
use, we have used the word “peace” as
virtually synonymous with disarmament.
By the same token, “war” is virtually
synonymous with nationhood. The elim-
ination of war implies the inevitable
elimination of national sovereignty and
the traditional nation-State.
The war system not only has been
essential to the existence of nations as
independent political entities, but has
been equally indispensable to their
stable internal political structure. With-
out it, no government has ever been
able to obtain acquiescence in its “legi-
timacy,” or right to rule its society.
The possibility of war provides the
sense of external necessity without
which no government can long remain
in power. The historical record reveals


instance after instance where the fail-
ure of a regime to maintain the credi-
bility of a war threat led to its dis-
solution, by the forces of private in-
terest, of reactions to social injustice,
or of other disintegrative elements.
The basic authority of a modern
state over its people resides in its war
powers. (There is, in fact, good reason
to believe that codified law had its
origins in the rules of conduct estab-
lished by military victors for dealing
with the defeated enemy, which were
later adapted to apply to all subject
populations.) On a day-to-day basis,
it is represented by the institution of
police, armed organisations charged ex-
pressly with dealing with “internal
enemies” in a military manner. Like
the conventional “external” military,
the police are also substantially exempt
from many civilian legal restraints on
their social behaviour. In some coun-
tries, the artificial destinction between
police and other military forces does
not exist. On the long-term basis, a
government’s emergency war powers
inherent in the structure of even the
most libertarian of nations define the
most significant aspect of the relation
between State and citizen.
In advanced modern democratic
societies, the war system has provided
political leaders with another political-
economic function, of increasing import-
ance: it has served as the last great
safeguard against the elimination of
necessary social classes. As economic
productivity increases to a level further
and further above that of minimum sub-
sistence, it becomes more and more
difficult for a society to maintain dis-
tribution patterns ensuring the existence
of “hewers of wood and drawers of
water.” The further progress of automa-
tion can be expected to differentiate
still more sharply between “superior”
workers and what Ricardo called
“menials,” while simultaneously
aggravating the problem of maintaining
an unskilled labor supply.
The arbitrary nature of war expendi-
tures and of other military activities
make them ideally suited to control
these essential class relationships.
Sociological
In general, the war system provides
the basic motivation for primary social
organisation. In so doing, it reflects on
the societal level the incentives of indi-
vidual human behaviour. The most im-
portant of these, for social purposes,
is the individual psychological rationale
for allegiance to a society and its values.
Allegiance requires a cause; a cause
requires an enemy. This much is
obvious; the critical point is that the
enemy that defines the cause must
seem genuinely formidable. Roughly
speaking, the presumed power of the
“enemy” sufficient to warrant an in-
dividual sense of allegiance to a society
must be proportionate to the size and
complexity of the society. Today, of
course, that power must be one of
unprecendented magnitude and fright-
fulness.
IT FOLLOWS, from the patterns of
human behaviour, that the credibility of
a social “enemy” demands similarly a
readiness of response in proportion to
its menace. In a broad social context,
“an eye for an eye” still characterises
the only acceptable attitude toward a
presumed threat of aggression, despite
contrary religious and moral precepts
governing personal conduct. The re-
moteness of personal decision from
social consequence in a modern
society makes it easy for its members
to maintain this attitude without be-
ing aware of it. A recent example is
the war in Vietnam; a less recent one
was the bombing of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki. In each case, the extent and
gratuitousness of the slaughter were
abstracted into political formulae by
most Americans, once the proposition
that the victims were “enemies” was
established. The war system makes
such an abstracted response possible in
nonmilitary contexts as well. A con-
ventional example of this mechanism
is the inability of most people to con-
nect, let us say, the starvation of mil-
lions in India with their own past con-
scious political decision-making. Yet
the sequential logic linking a decision to
restrict grain production in America
with an eventual famine in Asia is
obvious, unambiguous, and unconcealed.
What gives the war system its pre-
eminent role in social organisation, as
elsewhere, is its unmatched authority
over life and death.
A brief look at some defunct pre-
modern societies is instructive. One of
the most noteworthy features common
to the larger, more complex, and more
successful of ancient civilisations was
their widespread use of the blood sacri-
fice. If one were to limit consideration
to those cultures whose regional hege-
mony was so complete that the prospect
of “war” had become virtually incon-
ceivable —as was the case with several
of the great pre-Columbian societies of
the Western Hemisphere it would
be found that some form . of ritual
killing occupied a position of para-
mount social importance in each. In-
variably, the ritual was invested with
mythic or religious significance; as
with all religious and totemic practice,
however, the ritual masked a broader
and more important social function.
In these societies, the blood sacrifice
served the purpose of maintaining a
vestigial “earnest” of the society’s
capability and willingness to make war
i.e., kill and be killed in the
event that some mystical i.e., un-
foreseen circumstance were to give
rise to the possibility. It was primarily,
if not exclusively, a symbolic reminder
that war had once been the central
organising force of the society, and
that this condition might recur.
It does not follow that a transition
to total peace in modern societies
would require the use of this model;
even in less “barbaric” guise. But the
historical analogy serves as a reminder
that a viable substitute for war as a
social system cannot be a mere sym-
bolic charade. It must involve real
risk of real personal destruction, and
on a scale consistent with the size and
complexity of modern social systems.
Ecological
Man, like all other animals, is sub-
ject to the continuing process of adapt-
ing to the limitations of his environ-
ment. But the principal mechanism he
has utilised for this purpose is unique
among living creatures. To forestall
the inevitable historical cycles of inade-
quate food supply, post-Neolithic man
destroys surplus members of his own
species by organised warfare.
Ethologists have often observed that
the organised slaughter of members of
their own species is virtually unknown
among other animals. Man’s special
propensity to kill his own kind (shared
to a limited degree with rats) may be
attributed to his inability to adapt
anachronistic patterns of survival (like
primitive hunting) to his development
of “civilisations” in which these pat-
terns cannot be effectively sublimated.
It may be attributed to other causes
that have been suggested, such as a
maladapted “territorial instinct,” etc.
Nevertheless, it exists and its social ex-
pression in war constitutes a biological
control of his relationship to his natural
environment that is peculiar to man
alone.
War has served to help assure the
survival of the human species. But as
an evolutionary device to improve it,,
war is almost unbelievably inefficient.
With few exceptions, the selective pro-
cesses of other living creatures promote
both specific survival and genetic im-
provement. When a conventionally
adaptive animal faces one of its periodic
crises of insufficiency, it is the “in-
ferior” members of the species that nor-
mally disappear. In human societies,
those who fight and die in wars for
survival are in general its biologically
stronger members. This is natural selec-
tion in reverse.
The regressive genetic effect of war
has been often noted and equally often
deplored, even when it confuses
biological and cultural factors. The
disproportionate loss of the biologically
stronger remains inherent in traditional
warfare. It serves to underscore the fact
that survival of the species, rather than
its improvement, is the fundamental
purpose of natural selection, if it can
be said to have a purpose, just as it is
the basic premise of this study.
But as the polemologist Gaston
Boutboul has pointed out, other insti-
tuitions that were developed to serve
this ecological function have proved
even less satisfactory. (They include
such established forms as these: infan-
ticide, practised chiefly in ancient and
primitive societies; sexual mutilation;
monasticism; forced emigration; exten-
sive capital punishment, as in old
China and 18th-century England; and
/Continued on page 26


Wine-tasting for
everyone
NOT ALL AUSTRALIANS take wine seriously, but these
days most take it with enthusiasm. Wine-tasting today
might mean anything from pompous gentlemen sipping,
considering, then spitting in the sawdust in city cellars, to a
nice family outing up the Hunter Valley with a picnic
lunch, plenty of the old vino, then a few flagons in the boot
to take home afterwards.
Pictures by ROBERT WALKER
Members of the Australian Wine Consumers’ Co-operative Society
select wines at cellars in King Street, Sydney. Below, a member of
the society compares reds for color. The society recommends the
purchase of certain wines for members
Enthusiastic members of wine and food societies from
Pittwater, Parramatta, and southern districts of Sydney
get together for a session of serious tasting. Below, John
Stamford, of the Australian Wine Bureau, tasting at
Penfold’s cellars, Tempe


Wives of members of wine and food society learn a little about
connoisseurship, or simply wine one-upping
Tasting in the authentic atmosphere of Murray Tyrrell’s cellars
at Pokolbin in the Hunter Valley district of New South Wales
Below, luncheon on the grass at Pokolbin. Keen tasters, or people
who just like wine, make a day of it
Serious wine-tasters rarely use pretentious
jargon; it’s an inverted snobbery to talk
about wines as simply as possible
Anyone can buy good wine in expensive
bottles, but good wine in quantity takes
knowledge, confidence, and influence.
Below: After a visit to Tyrrell’s at Pokolbin, enthusiasts lay
in ample supplies for the dry period ahead


other similar, usually localised, prac-
tices.)
Man’s ability to increase his produc-
tivity of the essentials of physical life
suggests that the need for protection
against cyclical famine may be nearly
obsolete. It has thus tended to reduce
the apparent importance of the basic
ecological function of war, which is
generally disregarded by peace theorists.
Two aspects of it remain especially
relevant, however. The first is obvious:
current rates of population growth,
compounded by environmental threat of
chemical and other contaminants, may
well bring about a new crisis of in-
sufficiency. If so, it is likely to be one
of unprecedented global magnitude, not
merely regional or temporary.
The second relevant factor is the
efficiency of modern methods of mass
destruction. They offer, perhaps para-
doxically, the first opportunity in the
history of man to halt the regressive
genetic effects of natural selection by
war. Nuclear weapons are indiscrim-
inate. Their application would bring
to an end the disproportionate destruc-
tion of the physically stronger members
of the species (the “warriors”) in
periods of war. Whether this prospect
of genetic gain would offset the un-
favorable mutations anticipated from
post-nuclear radioactivity we have not
yet determined.
Another secondary ecological trend
bearing on projected population growth
is the regressive effect of certain medi-
cal advances. Pestilence, for example,
is no longer an important factor in
population control. The problem of
increased life expectancy has been
aggravated. These advances also pose
a potentially more sinister problem, in
that undesirable genetic traits that
were formerly self-liquidating are now
medically maintained. Many diseases
that were once fatal at preprocreational
ages are now cured; the effect of this
development is to perpetuate undesir-
able susceptibilities and mutations. It
seems clear that a new quasi-eugenic
function of war is now in process of
formation that will have to be taken
into account in any transition plan.
For the time being, the Department of
Defence appears to have recognised
such factors, as has been demonstrated
by the planning under way by the Rand
Corporation to cope with the break-
down in the ecological balance anti-
cipated after a thermonuclear war. The
Department has also begun to stockpile
birds, for example, against the expected
proliferation of radiation-resistant in-
sects, etc.
Cultural and Scientific
The declared order of values in
modern societies gives a high place to
the so-called “creative” activities, and
an even higher one to those associated
with the advance of scientific know-
ledge. Widely held social values can
be translated into political equivalents,
which in turn may bear on the nature
of a transition to peace. The depend-
ence, therefore, of cultural and scien-
tific achievement on the war system
would be an important consideration
in a transition plan even if such
achievement had no inherently neces-
sary social function.
Of all the countless dichotomies in-
vented by scholars to account for the
major differences in art styles and
cycles, only one has been consistently
unambiguous in its application to a
variety of forms and cultures. However
it may be verbalised, the basic distinc-
tion is this: Is the work war-oriented
or is it not? Among primitive peoples,
the war dance is the most important
art form. Elsewhere, literature, music,
painting, sculpture, and architecture
that has won lasting acceptance has
invariably dealt with a theme of war,
expressly or implicity, and has ex-
pressed the centricity of war to society.
The war in question may be national
conflict, as in Shakespeare’s plays,
Beethoven’s music, or Goya’s paint-
ings, or it may be reflected in the
form of religious, social, or moral
struggle, as in the work of Dante,
Rembrandt, and Bach. Aesthetic and
moral standards have a common an-
thropological origin, in the exaltation
of bravery, the willingness to kill and
risk death in tribal warfare.
It is also instructive to note that
the character of a society’s culture has
borne a close relationship to its war-
making potential, in the context of
its times. It is no accident that the
current “cultural explosion” in the
United States is taking place during
an era marked by an unusually rapid
advance in weaponry. This relationship
is more generally recognised than the
literature on the subject would suggest.
For example, many artists and writers
are now beginning to express concern
over the limited creative options they
envisage in the warless world they
think, or hope, may be soon upon us.
They are currently preparing for this
possibility by unprecedented experi-
mentation with meaningless forms;
their interest in recent years has been
increasingly engaged by the abstract
pattern, the gratuitous emotion, the
random happening, and the unrelated
sequence.
The relationship of war to scientific
research and discovery is more ex-
plicit. War is the principal motivational
force for the development of science
at every level, from the abstractly con-
ceptual to the narrowly technological.
Modern society places a high value on
“pure” science, but it is historically
inescapable that all the significant dis-
coveries that have been made about
the natural world have been inspired by
the real or imaginary military necessi-
ties of their epochs.
Beginning with the development of
iron and steel, and proceeding through
the discoveries of the laws of motion
and thermodynamics to the age of the
atomic particle, the synthetic polymere,
and the space capsule, no important
scientific advance has not been at least
indirectly initiated by an implicit re-
quirement of weaponry. More prosaic
examples include the transistor radio
(an outgrowth of military communica-
tions requirements), the assembly line
(from Civil War firearms needs), the
canal lock, and so on. A typical adapta-
tion can be seen in a device as modest
as the common lawnmower; it develop-
ed from the revolving scythe devised
by Leonardo da Vinci to precede a
horse-powered vehicle into enemy
ranks.
The most direct relationship can be
found in medical technology. For ex-
ample, a giant “walking machine,” an
amplifier of body motions invented for
military use in difficult terrain, is now
making it possible fo rmany previously
confined to wheelchairs to walk. The
Vietnam war alone has led to spectacu-
lar improvements in amputation pro-
cedures, blood-handling techniques, and
surgical logistics. It has stimulated new
large-scale research on malaria and
other tropical parasite diseases; it is
hard to estimate how long this work
would otherwise have been delayed, des-
pite its enormous non-military import-
ance to nearly half the world’s popula-
tion.
Other
We have elected to omit from our
discussion of the non-military functions
of war those we do not consider critical
to a transition program. This is not to
say they are unimportant, but only that
they appear to present no special prob-
lems for the organisation of a peace-
oriented social system. They include
the following:
War as a general social release
This is a psychosocial function, serv-
ing the same purpose for a society as
do the holiday, the celebration, and the
orgy for the individual the release
and redistribution of undifferentiated
tensions. War provides for the periodic
necessary readjustment of standards of
social behaviour (the “moral climate”)
and for the dissipation of general bore-
dom, one of'the most consistently un-
dervalued and unrecognised of social
phenomena.
War as a general stabiliser
This psychological function, served
by other behaviour patterns in other
animals, enables the physical deteriorat-
ing older generation to maintain its
control of the younger, destroying it
if necessary.
War as the basis for international
understanding
Before the development of modern
communications, the strategic require-
ments of war provided the only sub-
stantial incentive for the enrichment of
one national culture with the achieve-
ments of another.
We have also forgone extended
characterisation of those functions we
assume to be widely and explicitly
recognised; those we have included
are sufficient to define the scope of the
problem.
NEXT WEEK: Substitutes for the-
functions of war.


OVERSEAS
Johnson’s first job for
’68: to save the dollar
From NORA BELOFF in Washington
A BAN on the outflow of private
American capital to most foreign coun-
tries is expected to form part of Presi-
dent Johnson’s emergency program to
save the dollar.
Despite the booming state of the
United States economy, the dollar is
now under such acute pressure that
secret inter-departmental meetings were
held over the New Year holidays to
prepare measures to restore confidence.
In recent years, American private in-
vestment abroad, including reinvest-
ment of profits has totalled about
$A6420 million a year.
The President will receive recom-
mendations from his experts at his
Texas ranch. These will deal with an
assortment of measures designed' to
have a direct .and immediate effect on
the balance of payments. He will prob-
ably announce these within the next
fortnight before his regular econ-
omic message to Congress.
Officials take a very grave view of
the latest gold figures, which show that
the accelerated outflow of gold started
before the scare which followed the
devaluation of the pound. They sus-
pect the general public still has no
idea of how close they are to a com-
plete breakdown of the whole monetary
system.
It is now revealed that at the end of
November total gold stocks stood at
just under $13,000 million, whereas the
total of short-term dollar assets held by
foreigners rose in September, the latest
recorded month, to over $31,000 mil-
lion.
Within this total, liabilities to foreign
governments and central banks the
only dollars that can be cashed into
gold automatically were over $14,000
million. Additional economies in U.S.
military and economic spending abroad
are also likely to be recommended.
Mr. Harold Wilson has been un-
officially warned that in paring down
Britain’s defence commitments he
shoujd not expect America to fill the
vacuum Britain leaves; in other words,
there will be no repetition of the Tru-
man doctrine, under which Americans
stepped in to take over responsibilities
in Turkey and Greece when Britain
was in the throes of the last sterling
crisis.
In the U.S. Government’s view the
least painful way of reducing the colos-
sal dollar deficit is to hold up any
further export of private capital by big
American firms, especially to Europe.
On the other hand, the administration
is disinclined to seek legal sanctions
against private businesses who refuse
to comply.
This is not only because legislation
would be long and risky, but also be-
cause the American companies are well
placed to retaliate. As one economist
put it, “The most buoyant part of our
foreign income these days is the $4OOO
to $5OOO million we earn each year
from profits on dollar investments.”
If the Government coerced Ameri-
can firms into keeping their capital at
home, they could easily have their own
back by refusing to repatriate their
profits. But even though coercion seems
excluded, the Administration has strong
moral and material inducements to
make businessmen acquiesce.
The Government can also decide by
decree and without special Congres-
sional approval to suspend the rule
which at present forces the Federal
Reserve Bank to retain $lO,OOO million
of its reserves to cover the domestic
note circulation. The Reserve Bank
accepted this restraint voluntarily, but
its officials say it can rescind the rule
at will.
Leading economists, on whom the
Administration relies, are confident that
once the balance of payments seriously
improves, there are many technically
feasible ways of protecting the dollar
against the other factor of insecurity—
currency manipulation or speculation
on gold, to which, under the present
system, a reserve currency is invari-
ably subject.
One idea favored in high circles in
Washington, and which Americans be-
lieve also has considerable support in
Europe, is that the Central banks of
the major trading countries would all
agree to freeze the gold they hold in
their reserves at its current level.
Additional liquidity would be pro-
vided by special drawing rights in
accordance with the system recently
accepted by the International Monetary
Fund. The central banks would from
then on refuse to buy or sell gold to
any outsiders, and would conduct gold
transactions only between themselves.
One American economist has fore-
cast that within six months after such
a system had been adopted, the price
of gold in the private x market would
Johnson... off to Texas after Xmas
slump from the present 35 to 25 dollars
an ounce.
Though the French would certainly
oppose such a plan, the Americans-
believe it could be carried through,
even with one country abstaining. But
they concede that it is far from sure
whether General De Gaulle’s European
allies are yet angry enough with him
to risk a breakdown of the Common
Market, which might well follow a rup-
ture with France on such a vital
matter. And, if any of France’s partners
sided with the General, the whole deal
would become too dangerous.
Cambodia
Stay out, come in
FOR MONTHS now, President John-
son’s military advisers have been
urging him to lift the ban prohibiting
American troops from pursuing their
Vietnamese antagonists into Cambodia.
The recent battles' in the border area
at Loc Ninh and Dak To, with their
high rate of American casualties, in-
creased the pressure from command-
ers in the field for a go-ahead signal.
But in their dilemma about how to
deal with the communist sanctuaries


without widening the war, the Ameri-
cans couldn’t take much solace from
the contradictory postures in Prince
Norodom Sihanouk’s latest keep-out
come-in utterances. Wednesday saw the
third of Sihanouk’s warnings in a week
to the Americans that “hot pursuit”
would mean a call to volunteers in
Peking, North KCrea, and Cuba to
protect Cambodia’s frontiers. But by
the weekend, in a cabled response to
questions from Tokyo, the Prince was
reported to have shifted ground: the
Americans could pursue communist
forces fleeing from Vietnam for a few
miles only into his kingdom, but they
must withdraw immediately afterward.
The military argument for border-
crpssing is clear and persuasive as
most military arguments are. Although
Sihanouk... a change of attitude?
the Cambodian Government has
repeatedly denied that the North
Vietnamese and the Viet Cong are
using Cambodian territory as a
sanctuary, the weight of evidence over-
whelmingly supports the American
claim. So, if the North Vietnamese
continue to stage large-scale battles
within escaping distance of Cambodia,
the logical American military response
must be to eliminate this enemy advan-
tage by exercising the right of “hot
pursuit.”
, The case against “hot pursuit” into
Cambodia in military terms is similar
to the more frequently argued case
against an invasion of North Vietnam.
There is the problem of defining “hot
pursuit”: are two scouts equivalent to
a battalion? There is the difficulty of
drawing the next line beyond the bor-
der. And there is the slight risk that
it will provoke Chinese intervention.
China is already supplying most of
Cambodia’s arms, and might agree to
send a few token volunteers. But how-
ever close the newly patched-up Sino-
Cambodian friendship, the 500 miles
between them keep Cambodia from
being as vital to China’s own security
as its neighbor North Vietnam is. So
China is even less likely to mount a
serious intervention in Cambodia than
it has proved to be in Vietnam.
The stronger argument against mov-
ing into Cambodia, which President
Johnson must consider, is political.
Prince Sihanouk is the closest thing to
a genuine neutralist leader in South-
East Asia today. His neutrality is not
the opting-out sort; he is too outspoken
for that. But in all his rambling emo-
tional discourses he has rammed one
point home: that the overriding aim of
his foreign policy is to maximise and
prolong Cambodia’s independence of
any and all outside powers. He recently
demonstrated the effectiveness of his
balancing act by extracting the only
apology known to have been granted
by cultural revolutionary China.
Prince Sihanouk’s attitude toward
his North Vietnamese squatters may not
be neutral according to some lights.
But according to his own, he is taking
the only prudent path; his 30,000-man
army is not strong enough to prevent
incursions even the South Vietna-
mese Foreign Minister, Dr. Tran Van
Do, conceded this point last week
when he asserted South Vietnam’s right
of pursuit into Cambodia and so he
has chosen to ignore them. The Prince
would probably be more than happy if
the Americans could keep Vietnamese
of both colors out of his territory. But
if they must make a public invasion
of Cambodia to do it, then Sihanouk’s
bluff will be called and he may be
pushed into a communist alignment he
has never wanted.
The estrangement of Prince Sihanouk
is only one of the casualties of an
American invasion of Cambodia and
perhaps not the most serious one. The
Cambodian ruler has shifted with the
wind before and when the winds
change, he may do so again. But by
eliminating the last Indo-Chinese
neutral, the Americans might sabotage
their own efforts toward a future
political settlement in the area, since
any such settlement would have to be
based on a respect for neutrality.
Another casualty of the violation of
neutrality might be the increased sup-
port from American public opinion
which President Johnson has been
building up in recent polls as well as
the already strained goodwill of his
European allies.
But it is important that the situation
should be seen in perspective: what is
happening in Cambodia needs to be
related to what is happening in Laos.
The scale of the fighting now in Laos
is hard to determine: it could be a
serious offensive carefully planned by
the Communists; it could be little more
than the seasonal rice raids. In any
case, it needs to be taken into account.
Neutrality in Laos, unlike neutrality
in Cambodia, is a legal fiction. For
years, some 70,000 North Vietnamese
troops have been operating along the
Ho Chi Minh trails that lead through
Laos into Cambodia (and, more
recently, the Americans have been aid-
ing the Royal Laotian Army and bomb-
ing the trail). Given this, an American
incursion into Laos would not have
the same political effect as a move into
Cambodia. From the military point of
view it may be the only effective way
of rooting out the Ho Chi Minh trails.
Nevertheless, and despite current inter-
national dismay at the prospect of the
war escalating, the statements emanat-
ing from Washington last Thursday
indicate that President Johnson has de-
cided, for the moment, to stay his
hand.
South Vietnam
Seeking options
THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE Gov-
ernment is fighting an energetic rear-
guard action in the face of mounting
evidence of America’s interest in talk-
ing to the Viet Cong.
The American Embassy in Saigon
has denied having any meetings with
Viet Cong agents. However, it is
believed that senior United States
officials in Saigon have recently tried
to contact people who are in close
touch with the National Liberation
Front.
The most plausible explanation of
what is going on, according to sources
in Saigon, is that Ambassador Bunker
has been charged to find out if there
are any non-communists elements in the
Front who might be interested in a
coalition. This is interpreted as part
of a policy of opening up as many
options as possible, and not as any
weakening in Washington’s insistence
on negotiations only on its terms.
The Vietnamese view all this with
the deepest suspicion. They point out
that until now Washington has dis-
missed the Viet Cong as a “tool” of
Hanoi. It is therefore unrealistic, they
say, to suppose that there are still
leading members of the Viet Cong who
are at heart no more than good, if
misguided, nationalists.
Saigon’s anxiety has been increased by
the meeting between President Johnson
and President Thieu in Canberra, in
which it looked as if Johnson was try-
ing to pressure Thieu into accepting
the principle of talking to the Viet
Cong.
This Thieu has refused to do, saying
he will meet members of the Front
only as private individuals. Last week
he made himself even clearer by stat-
ing that “a coalition with the NLF
means suicide for us.”
There are several reasons for this
attitude. First, the South Vietnamese


if you’re
looking for
a better
Fino sherry
you may
never find it
mi
*SO
2
<r
PHODUCXD & BOTTLED WT
ANGOVE’S ltd.
**NMAKK SOUTH AUSTRALIA
• an imieiLozs. •
but all that searching
will make you thirsty
so take along a bottle of
ANGOVE’S
FI MO DRV
Distributed throughout Australia by Dalgety
Trading Co. Pty. Ltd. In Sydney also John
Mackenzie d Co. Pty. Ltd., In Melbourne
also Van Cooth d Co. Pty. Ltd.
The connoisseurs choice
MARKO VERMOUTH
have vivid memories of the 1956 Geneva
Conference, which they believe was a
betrayal of the non-communist nation-
alists. Second, Thieu is leader of a far
from united Government, and any sign
of softness toward the Front would hand
a deadly weapon to his old rival Vice-
President Ky. Lastly, it is hard to find
anyone in Saigon, apart from covert
Viet Cong sympathisers, who does not
believe that even informal contacts with
the Front would be only the first step
to coalition and an eventual Viet Cong
takeover.
American officials in Sajgon privately
admit that reassurances to Vietnamese
friends on this score have not been
effective. If there is a credibility gap in
America about Washington’s intentions,
in Saigon there threatens to be a credi-
bility chasm.
The most damaging result of the
uncertainty of the past month is the
erosion of people’s willingness to com-
mit themselves irrevocably to the Saigon
Government. From Government officials
down, the safest policy seems to be to
wait and see.
Britain
Pulling out
GROWING AMERICAN apprehension
about British intentions in defence has
in no way been dispelled by the ex-
pected arrival in Washington of half a
dozen civil servants from the Ministries
of Defence and Technology.
These officials, all experts in Britain’s
arms contracts with the United States,
will spend the next few days sound-
ing their American counterparts on
just what options are open to Britain
in making urgent and immediate cuts.
Their mission, said to be solely “ex-
Healey ... fragile U.S hopes pinned on
him
ploratory,” represents the only direct
contact that the British Government is
planning with the Johnson Administra-
tion over the role of defence economies
in the austerity program to be an-
nounced when Parliament reassembles.
Originally President Johnson had
apparently hoped that Mr. Wilson
would divulge his policy intentions
and lay himself open to the famous
LBJ treatment of persuasion on his
much-heralded visit to Washington, at
one time expected to take place next
weekend. Instead, the Prime Minister
startled the’ President when they met
in Australia by insisting that a trip
he himself had suggested would not
now be convenient until February. This
inevitably aroused White House sus-
picions that he was determined to
present it with a fait accompli, both in
arms contract cancellations and in a
final British withdrawal from the Far
East by 1971.
With this draining of confidence be-
tween the American President and the
Prime Minister, very little hope is now
felt in Washington if Mr. Wilson
has his way of either the $750-
million F-11l contract or the $B5O-
- Phantom deal emerging un-
scathed. Even more serious from the
American point of view, the impression
has rapidly gained ground that the
Prime Minister is more than willing
to sacrifice Singapore as a sop to his
Left Wing rather than make an un-
popular social 'welfare cutback at
home.
The resentful mood directed at Mr.
Wilson personally certainly suggests
that the Americans are prepared to
drive a hard bargain on the penalty
costs, which one official has estimated,
with some relish, could reach $ 100-
million on each contract.
But, in contrast to the hectic efforts
to influence Downing Street, which
preceded the last announcement of
British defence economies last July, the
Americans appear to have made virtu-
ally no effort this time to deter the
Prime Minister from what is suspected
to be a course on which he has already
made up his mind. There is reason,
however, to believe that at least some
State Department elements refuse to
acknowledge any logical need for
defence cuts. Their hopes, however
fragile, appear to be pinned on the
influence that two Ministers, Mr.
George Brown and Mr. Denis Healey
(both spoken in Washington official
circles in increasingly glowing terms)
may be able to exert on the Cabinet
discussions, which were due to start on
January 4. -
The Johnson Administration may not
have withdrawn its backing of the
Labor Government, but there is, to say
the least, some cause now to doubt
whether its interests any longer co-
incide with support of Mr. Wilson’s
own leadership.
Meanwhile, in London the principal
concern is how far back Britain will
cut its defence expenditure and which


commitments can most easily be
altogether abandoned.
Some commitments, such as those to
the South-East Asia Treaty Organisa-
tion, are seen as relatively easy to
terminate. Others, to Malaysia and
Singapore, for example, are more diffi-
cult, because Ministers assured the
countries concerned that there would be
no going back on promises made in
the supplementary defence statement
last July.
In addition, there are difficulties
with the services. For if Mr. Healey
accepts a Cabinet decision to cancel the
F-11l he could be faced with the
resignation of the Chief, of the Defence
Staff, Marshal of the Royal Air Force,
Sir Charles Elworthy.
The pressures to appease different
interests and keep as much as possible
of the existing defence policy are there--
fore very strong.
When Labor came to office in 1964
it was convinced that Britain had a
“peace-keeping” role to play in South-
East Asia. This notion was subsequently
justified by the .skill and restraint with
which British forces were used to sup-
port Malaysia in the Indonesian “con-
frontation.” But difficulties arose be-
cause of the gap between the tasks in-
volved and the means available to ful-
fill them.
In 1966 the Government attempted
to solve this problem by declaring that
henceforth no large military action
would be undertaken overseas without
the participation of allies. Then, later,
the Government let it be known that
even with allies it had no intention of
embarking on another operation the size
of that in Malaysia. However, there
were still large bases to maintain. In
due course the Government announced
a timetable for the evacuation of Aden
and Singapore and plans to replace
them by a system of small “island tran-
sit stations” in the Indian Ocean.
But two things were necessary to
make this strategy feasible: the F-11l
strike aircraft with its transoceanic
radius of action, and the strategically
located station on Aldabra, off East
Africa. When the plan for Aldabra was
dropped after devaluation, the island
strategy received a serious blow: for
Aldabra was intended as part of a
guaranteed route to the Far East (from
Ascension Island in the Atlantic, and
rouncf or across Africa) if the present
route across the Middle East should be
closed.
The only alternative was to acquire
overflying and staging rights in South
Africa a hidden reason why, together
with the need to offset F-11l costs, pres-
sure was put on Mr. Wilson to lift the
embargo on South African arms sales.
There is still British agreement with
the argument, advanced by Mr. Healey
on television last week, that in a world
dominated by the bomb Britain has a
vital interest in preventing or contain-
ing small conflicts that could escalate
into nuclear ones. Nor can there be
much doubt that force will continue
to be a frequently necessary instrument
for this purpose. An immediate
example is the role of United Nations
forces, including a large British con-
tingent, in keeping peace in Cyprus.
But for every example of the success-
ful use of force in peace-keeping, the
British now produce examples of its
misapplication to situations whose solu-
tion can only be political or economic.
For instance, their line on Singapore
may now be that its long-term need is
not for the presence of British forces
but for the ending of tariff barriers
against her exports, particularly in Aus-
tralia.
It is now also argued that in the
case of unilateral peace-keeping efforts,
the suspicion (not always unjustified)
that the country concerned is seeking
purely national interests, can create
additional enmities with the result that
military force becomes counter-pro-
ductive. (For Britain this danger exists
in the Persian Gulf, where its building
of new positions in Bahrein and Sharja
is widely seen as an attempt to protect
oil interests.)
When the Commonwealth Relations
Secretary, Mr. George Thomson, visits
Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, and
New Zealand within the next fortnight
he will probably say that there is no
choice but to accelerate withdrawal
from Malaysia and Singapore, origin-
ally planned to be completed by the
mid-19705.
If this happens, British withdrawal
from the Persian Gulf, which partly
serves as a staging area to the Far
East, will also be advanced, and the
chief British commitments outside
Europe will be for the security of
colonies such as Mauritius and Fiji.
The Government might then choose
to run down the forces by 60,000-
80,000 men (out of 400,000), phase
out the remaining three carriers, can-
cel the £426 million order for the
F-111, halve a £9OO million bill for
Hercules Transports and Phantoms,
and cut the present £2OOO million
defence budget by up to £3OO million.
But although these cuts, taking two
or three years to achieve, could be a
partial answer to the British economic
problem, they are not an answer to its
defence problem, if by that is meant
Britain’s contribution as a responsible
medium-sized power to international
security.
In the end it is the problem of
security which will present the greater
challenge in a world of proliferating
armaments, shrinking distances, grow-
ing hunger, and a widening gulf be-
tween the “haves” and the “have-nots.”
In this connection it seems ironical
that in time of war, as in 1939-45,
economic warfare is accepted as part
of the war effort in general, yet, in
time of peace there is no such con-
cept of economic peace-keeping.
The way to realise such a concept
might be found in one of the real
successes of Mr. Healey’s three years
as Defence Secretary the building
up of an organisation to analyse the
benefits of various elements of the
defence program in terms of their
costs. Already it has saved nearly
£lOOO million on wasteful programs
and brought the Armed Forces to a
greater state of efficiency.
The British Armed Forces are not
going to be reduced to the status of a
palace guard. (So long as there are 20
Russian divisions within a day’s march
of Berlin, it is more likely to show that
an effective British Army of the Rhine
is a worthwhile contribution to the
political stability of Europe.)
But if the British take security
seriously, they can seize the economic
crisis as the chance for a change not
in the direction of writing off internat-
ional responsibilities, but by seeing
whether they cannot spend their re-
duced budget more effectively.
The British breathalyser
The Xmas result
TAKEN IN conjunction with the 14
percent fall in road deaths in October
the month when breath testing of
British motorists came into force —•
the provisional figures of accidents dur-
ing the Christmas holiday are
encouraging. Over the five days Decem-
ber 22 to 26 the number of deaths was
98, compared with 158 in the same five
days of 1966. Last year’s total eventu-
ally reached 192 deaths, and this
Christmas’ final figure will also be
higher when some of the seriously
injured die. But above all, it is en-
couraging that the number of accidents,
and so perhaps the number of potential
deaths, is also lower—3o96, compared
with 4239.
Even the Royal Automobile Club,
which was opposed to breath testing as
interfering with the liberty of the
motorist, has had to concede that the
provisional fall in Christmas deaths is
, partly the result of testing. Many office
parties were called off; at others, firms’
employees had to sign a pledge that
they were leaving their cars behind; and
so on. But the effect of the test may
well be more indirect than direct. For
instance, the fall in deaths may be due
not so much to drunken drivers being
kept off the road as to ordinary drivers
being scared off; holiday traffic was
light.
The indirect effects of testing may
well not last long. Nor is drunken
driving the sole, or even a main, cause
of road deaths. The provisional daily
average for this Christmas is, after all,
still higher than the annual daily
average in the early 19605; nor is it
below the 1964 Christmas average. It
would be as foolish to think that breath
tests are the sole answer to accidents
as it is irresponsible to denounce them.


BUSINESS
AND FINANCE
All eyes on the United States:
it will be a good year
LAST YEAR IT WAS all eyes on
Britain; this year they will be on the
United States. Australia will be more
concerned about what happens to the
U.S. economy in 1968 than to any other
country, even though the U.S. is well
behind Japan and Britain as a customer
of Australian exports. For the economic
health of the U.S. is now unquestion-
ably the major influence on our pros-
perity, not only in itself, but because
of the major impact it has on the
Japanese economy. Now that Britain
has at last devalued, and the rest of
the world has coped with the conse-
quences, she has ceased to be a very
important source of worry for Australia
for a while. Of course, Britain could be-
come a major problem once again if
her devaluation does not work, but it
should take at least to the end of 1968
before such a failure would become so
marked as to require further action to
disrupt exchange rates.
No, the key is the U.S., and so far
the indicators are that it will have a
pretty good year. Now that the post-
devaluation run on the dollar seems to
have been halted and the gold market
has returned to something near normal,
the major concern about the U.S. situa-
tion is in its domestic economy. (There
seems little prospect of any change in
America’s restrictive policy on exporting
capital this year or of any major altera-
tions to its foreign trade attitudes.)
On the domestic front, the general
feeling seems to be that expansion will
continue in 1968, that the boom will go
U.S. Federal Reserve’s Martin... no
easy money
. . .
on despite some uncertainties, like the
~. 1 , ,
Vietnam war and the attack on the
... T , t'* , at j.' i
dollar. In any event, the hirst National
-p, , 7 , ’ j i •
City Bank says there is an underlying
confidence in the business outlook in
the U.S. following the lull in recent
months brought on by strikes in the
motor industry. And the “Wall Street
Journal” says that a strong business
upsurge in the immediate months ahead,
accompanied by increasing inflationary
pressures, is a foregone conclusion.
There is no doubt that the threat of
inflation is a worrying one. “Now we
are overstimulated again and there is
a need for restraint once more, what is
needed is a moderate move toward a
less-expansive monetary policy and,
above all, a reduction in Federal expen-
diture coupled with a prompt tax in-
crease,” advised the First National City
Bank last month. “It would be a mis-
take at this juncture to clamp too
severely an restrictive monetary policy
on the economy; this would only be dis-
ruptive; it would be equally unwise to
allow concern about the high level of
interest rates to dictate a continuation
of excessive ease.”
Last week, the U.S. monetary authori-
ties agreed and, in an important move
against easy money, limited the amount
that banks could lend by increasing
their reserve ratios. So, despite Con-
gressional unwillingness to allow taxes
to rise, it seems that the U.S. authorities
are prepared to act to hold the threat-
ened inflation in check. With luck, the
U.S. economy should not be a serious,
problem to us this year.
Gold buying
The non-monetary pressures
PRIVATE BUYING OF GOLD is not
entirely a matter of hedging against
currencies; the industrial and jewellery
demand for gold may now be taking
almost half the world’s annual ouptut
and five years from now could be
taking all of it at the present price.
But December’s goldrush was very
much a speculator’s affair. By the time
the gold market had finally calmed
down, the smaller central banks, the
international hoarders, and the specula-
tors had between them snapped up at
the very least about 650 tons, or $750
million worth, of bullion in the month
since sterling’s devaluation, represent-
ing about half the world’s current
annual new-gold output (excluding
Russia’s periodic sales to the West).
This single month’s intake was also
about half of the amount that has been
sucked annually into private hoards
over the past few years; since 1965,
private buyers have been taking up
virtually the entire world output of
gold coming on to the market.
Apart from short-term alarums,
there is, behind the private demand
for gold, a steadily and quietly expand-
ing need for it in manufacturing, most
obviously in jewellery, less obviously
as an industrial material. It is difficult
to estimate the amounts of gold
actually used in industry and for
jewellery. And it is quite impossible
to determine to what extent buyers of
gold trinkets are also investors and
therefore hoarders. Although the
bullion content of jewellery commonly
accounts only for about 30 percent of
the retail price, the price •of gold
jewellery has dropped in relation to
other prices since President Roosevelt
hit on his magic $35 an ounce for
gold several generations ago. This, and
increasing prosperity throughout the
Western world, have combined to create
a steady increase in the demand for
gold jewellery.
In industry, too, gold is being in-
creasingly used despite its softness,
because it is the best electrical con-
ductor known and because of its ex-
ceptional chemical ineitness which
means > amon § much f lse , , that * neither
rusts nor reacts with other materials.
Jn (he United s the jewell
industry takes up about ’ 65 p ’ rcent o ’ {
“industrial” gold, while the electrical
and electronics industries take up about
20 percent that is, about SUS3B
million worth. And a projection made
by Consolidated Gold Fields is that
total world use of gold in industry and
the arts could double by 1973 which,
if correct, would then be equivalent to
almost the whole of projected world
supply, without making any allowance
at all for additions to monetary re-
serves or bullion hoarding. If these
suggestions of a steadily growing de-
mand for gold as a pure commodity
are even remotely right, then there is
another significant pressure here on
world supplies.


THE WEEK
BRIEFLY
For the economy S Most big Australian retailers
appear to agree that Christmas and immediate post-
Christmas shopping will set new records well above
their budget forecasts; N.S.W., for instance, expects a 5
percent value advance for December as a whole.
November’s production statistics saw output of pig iron
and ingot steel down for the second successive month;
building materials improved, while non-durable consumer
goods slipped back.
Over the 11 months to November, new motor vehicle
registrations have averaged 34,400 a month against 31,300
during 1966.
The Federal Government is to discuss freight increases
with the Australia-Europe Shipping Conference.
For the markets: Post-Christmas dealings on Austra-
lian share markets began very guardedly and with obviously
reduced turnovers; industrial leaders look fairly firm and
top miners are posting gains.
Industrials have strengthened mildly in London, again on
very light trading . . . Wall Street, in contrast, has recorded
some sizable rises on quite heavy turnovers.
For companies: The year closed tamely and cir-
cumspectly enough, yet South British Insurance brought a
semblence of takeover life with its $1.5 million offer for
Australian Capital Assurances; ACA directors recommend
acceptance, which will enable South British to enter the
life field ... Not so fortunate on the finance front,
Australian Factors (Vic.) has lost $41,745 (previous year
$44,298), bringing accumulated losses to $1,159,828 . . .
Its fourth share issue in four years is to be made by Realty
Development and Mortgage early in 1968.
Drought has lent uncertainty to Dalgety and New Zealand
Loan’s prospects for 1967-68; the group’s capital accounts
will gain as a result of sterling’s devaluation . . . The
1966-67 year (to October) meant a recovery for International
Harvester Co. of Australia Pty., whose profit went from
$2,048,533 to $3,881,169 on sales up by 25 percent to $B4
million . . . Golden Poultry Farm Pty. (now owned by
British Tobacco and Inghams) lost $303,685 in 1966-67
(previously a declared profit at $259,018) . . ' Bakery group
Dalton Brothers has purchased Sunshine Bakeries and
Hackshalls’ flour mills for cash.
Miners have been uncharacteristically quiet . . . Great
Boulder plans to conduct a feasibility study on its Mt.
Martin nickel prospect; laboratory tests have recovered an
“acceptable percentage of nickel content from cores in
flotation tests” . . . Beach sands miner Coffs Harbor Rutile
has paid an unchanged dividend at 31 cents a share (for
1967).
The current year’s earnings of CSR should be at much
the same level as for 1966-67; devaluation will reduce the
sugar industry’s income “in the long run” . . . Under a
plan to rationalise activities in industrial chemicals, ICIANZ
will obtain a 49.7 percent interest in CSR Chemicals Pty.
Adelaide-based shoemaker Clarks Shoes Australia saw
earnings go from $576,950 to $887,437 and dividend from
10 to 12 percent . . . Profit of heavy engineer Vickers Aus-
tralia put on 4 percent to $751,383, giving a 12.5 percent
earning rate to cover the 8 percent payout . . . Paint and
lacquer maker Brolite slipped from $223,827 to $207,478,
yet kept a steady 16 percent.
MEN AND
MATTERS
IT IS HANDY having the name Fer-
ranti, but even without it 37-year-old
Sydney engineer Barry Zani de Fer-
ranti would still be going great guns
in the computer business. Last week
he was appointed to run the U.S. opera-
tions of Britain’s giant International
Computers and Tabulators Ltd. group,
which, as the biggest computer opera-
tion outside the U.S., is at last attack-
ing its American rivals on their home
base.
Sydney-born son of a Belgian child-
immigrant farmer turned lawyer, Barry
Ferranti went to Britain as a graduate
apprentice at General Electric for a
couple of years after completing the
formal part of his education (North
Sydney Boys’ High and Sydney Uni-
versity). Then Harry Messel hired him
to install Silliac at Sydney University;
when the job was done he joined IBM
(they don’t talk about this much at
ICT) and put in the first computer (a
650) at the IBM data-processing centre
(this was the machine that first pro-
cessed Leaving Certificate English re-
sults nine years ago).
When the Ferranti computer people
(who subsequently merged into ICT in
1963) decided to set up an Australian
operation in Melbourne early in the
19605, Barry Ferranti was a “natural”
to run it; apart from having ideal ex-
perience, the London directors are his
third cousins, possessing a common
great-great-grandfather. An ancestor,
Marcaurel de Ferranti, moved from
Bologna to Brussels as the Belgian
Court guitarist, so it is in the family
tradition for Barry to sing well and
improvise on the piano.
His current appointment to represent
ICT in the U.S., based in New York,
means he will be responsible for market
development of American-based organ-
isations with international affiliations.
But he still hopes to return to Aus-
tralia after four or five years; this is
the place he really wants to call home
for his wife and three children.
An active member of the Australian
Computer Society since its formation
six years ago, Barry took a role in set-
ting up in 1965 an EDP careers com-
mittee under the auspices of the Syd-
ney University Appointments Board to
assess the likely demand for computer
staff. A pilot survey indicated 12,000
people from operator to managerial
level would be directly concerned and
by 1970 this was expected to double.
Tangible action taken was to launch
an appeal for funds with w'hich to set
up a lectureship at Sydney.
ODDLY ENOUGH, Mr. Harry
McEwin Scambler, general manager
of the British-based English, Scottish,
and Australian Bank these past four
years or so, who was, some months
back, made chairman of the new
Resources Bank, was born in the
United States a nice double twist
H. McE. Scambler
B. de Ferranti
for the head of a resources bank whose
object will be to marshal local capital
(and what it can get from overseas
as well) in order to keep; control of
big Australian development projects
out of foreign hands.
But Mr. Scambler has spent most of
his life in Melbourne and at the
ES&A, which he joined as a lad of 16
straight from Scotch College. He has
since emerged as one of our most
forward-looking private bankers. (He’s
swiped two excellent outside men to fill
the positions of economist and head of
ES&A’s business development depart-
ment since he’s become GM), and has
been instrumental in pushing the
bankers’ and other barrows to no mean
purpose, such as, for instance, the
formation of the Australian Innovation
Corporation, about which we’re going
to hear a lot more in the coming year.


(Yearly changes in the Sydney Share
Price Index since 1963)
Dec.
Dec. c ;
■c + or
% + or
% + or
%
+ or
on previous year
1967 on
1963
1967
1964
1965
1966
1967
1963
Banks, insur., trustee
Other finance
209.59
213.57
— 5
—16
— 1
+
27
+ 2
680.18
576.45
—13
—19
+ 4
+
10
+ 15
Pastoral
208.06
221.45
— 3
—16
+ 6
—
9
— 21
Transport, com’tions
475.75
461.73
+ 9
— 7
— 9-
+
1
— 3
Trade, services
463.50
333.62
— 8
—15
—11
—
3
— 3
Food, drink, tobacco
184.74
201.76
— 0
— 8
— 2
+
18
+ 9
Textiles
235.82
195.26
— 1
—15
—13
+
9
— 17
Basic materials
433.30
349.56
— 0
—16
—11
+
4
— 24
Steel, engineering
421.41
1080.68
+ 1
— 6
+ 18
+ 110
+ 157
Building, construction
824.79
763.84
+ 3
—17
—11
+
17
- 7
Electric sales, mfg.
569.86
428.79
+ 4
—21
—14
4-
3
— 25
Auto industry
854.51
766.66
+ 3
—16
+ 1
+
2
— 10
Non-ferrous metals
851.26
2161.43
+ 37
— 4
+ 18
+
16
+ 154
Fuel, light, power
242.00
199.00
— 3
—18
—16
+
21
— 18
ALL ORDINARIES
362.37
442.30
+ 1
—12
— 0
+
32
+ 22
WILD CAT PAGES
PAGES
Miners top the 1968 selections
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
By JASON
MINING. THAT’S ALL you ever hear
these days. Even though the 1967 min-
ing boom eased off a bit toward the
end of the year, almost everyone in the
stockmarket seems to think that mining
and oil will provide the only really
lively investment area in 1968. It is now
a thoroughly accepted proposition that
the mining boom is much more than
just a passing one, and that it reflects
the structural change that is now taking
place in the Australian economy, as raw
materials developments are making the
extractive industries as important in
export terms as most of the traditional
industries. I
There is a lot to be said for this view;
a few weeks ago, BHP, RTZ, WMC,
Ampol, Mt. Isa, AAO, and Woodside
were recommended for 1968 on this
page for this reason. So there may be
little point in looking at historical values
of these stocks when trying to deter-
mine whether they are too dear after
last year’s rises; history has nothing to
do with the case. Many of these com-
panies are now in an entirely new
environment, mining new materials, ser-
vicing new markets. Nevertheless, it is
worth remembering that many of the
highly “bulled” stocks do depend, for
the bulk of their income, on world
commodity prices.
But even if world qommodity prices
were to slip a bit in 1968 (or if an
outbreak of peace in Vietnam knocked
commodity markets), the big new
developments in Australia, like oil,
nickel, bauxite, phosphate, iron ore,
and even coal, will still allow us to do
a lot better than we have ever done
before out of mining. Add to this the
investor enthusiasm over this section
of the market, as rapidly rising prices
have brought impressive profits (over
the past four years, as the table below
shows, the non-ferrous mining section
of the Sydney share price index has
jumped by 154 percent), and there
seems little doubt that mining will be
a strong “go-er” in 1968.
But there is no momentum at all in
the rest of the market; if you take
BHP and the mining stocks out of the
22 percent rise in the Sydney all
ordinaries share price index since 1963,
you get a fall in average prices, as ten
of the 14 industrial sections of the
index have fallen over the past four
years. And with average luck, as we
forecast here last week, the non-mining
section could have a pretty unhappy
iri „ n . , ,
1968. That has not prevented us from
including several non-mining stocks in
our pick of a few weeks ago for 1968,
such as Containers, Woolworths, Wyn-
yard Holdings, Steamships Trading,
William Adams, Electronic Industries,
Universal Textiles, L. J. Hooker,
United Telecasters, Concrete Industries,
and Geors-p Hudson
This preponderance of mining stocks
in the forecasts for 1968 is evident in
the selections by ten Australian stock-
brokers for 1968 that appeared recently
in the Financial Review. All inclu-
ded BHP in their lists, four had WMC,
and two picked CSR, ICIANZ,
Hamersley, Kathleen Investments, Mt.
Isa, and Peko. But the 24 other stocks
in the list were selected by only one
broker each, indicating that after a
universal acceptance of BHP as the
stock of the year (with WMC as a
fairly popular second choice), the field
was very open, indeed. The significant
thing about all this was that only nine
of the 32 stocks chosen were not mining
or oil companies.
On the other hand, lan Potter & Co’s
list of 15 recommended stocks for 1968
has BHP and WMC but has a far
greater leavening of non-mining stocks
than most brokers; almost half of them
are outside the mining boom, with
stocks like Castlemaine Perkins, Com-
modore Motels, Electronic Industries,
Herald and Weekly Times, A. V. Jen-
nings, Mayne Nickless, and Myer.
Apart from BHP and WMC, the firm’s
oil and mining suggestions are Alliance
Petroleum, Coal and Allied, CSR,
Kathleen Investments, Mt. Isa, and
Peko.
The newspaper tipsters all go along
with the mining boom and have BHP
as most popular stock for 1968. The
Sydney “Sun” adds to it Coal and
Allied, Lithgow Valley Colliery, Ampol
Exploration, MKU, Vam, Waltons,
Consolidated Milk Industries, and Buck-
inghams. The “Daily Mirror” adds
Thiess, BH South, CRA, North BH,
Peko, Hamersley, Consolidated Gold-
fields, Kathleen Investments, and
Howard Smith in a heavily “mining
leader” oriented portfolio. The “Sunday
Telegraph” likes Mt. Isa, WMC, CSR,
Chamberlain, CRA, and E.Z. Industries.
THE HOLIDAY PERIOD interfered
little with oil drilling programs. Opera-
tions were delayed at Esso-BHP’s con-
firmatory step-out well, Kingfish B-l
well. Drilling last week reached 6768
feet, still about 900 feet short of the
oil-producing interval in the A-l well.
The 'Ocean Digger rig has arrived at
the Prawn A-l well site, 42 miles south
of Cape Otway. The third offshore
drilling rig to be brought- into opera-
tions by Esso-BHP, Discoverer 11, will
arrive in Australian waters late in
January, for use on the Gippsland shelf.
At last report, BOC of Australia’s
•Ashmore Reef No. 1 well was at 7730.
feet. AOG’s Capricorn 1A well was
drilling ahead at 4275 feet. Delhi-
Santos spudded in a wildcat, Mudlalee
No. 1 well, 19 miles south-east of the
Moomba gas field, on December 27.
Wapet’s Murion No. 1 well was com-
pleted at 5857 feet, without sight of
hydrocarbons. The rig is being moved
to Observation Island, in the mouth
of Exmouth Gulf. Sandy Point No. 1
well reached 6339 feet, and Dongara
No. 6 was drilled below 4932 feet.
How share prices have moved


Share
Par
Div.
Year . Week 1
Fri.
1967
1 Turnover
1 Yield %
Value
cents
1 ago |
ago | close ]High ILow
Syd.
Melb.
| Div.
| Earn.
METALS
AND
OILS
Aiberfoyle
.50
2
1
80'
1.75;
1.76]
2.20,]. 1.20
10,500.1'
1,6001
Ampo'l Exip.
.50 ’
1
06
1 75;
1.78
2.20,1 1 04
3,400;
2.400
Assoc. Min.
.50
20
5
90 j
6 70;
7.001
7.10] 5 10
1,000]
200
2.9
5.4
A.O.G.
.50
8
1
/&;
2 20,
2 ,251'
2.78! 1.42'
12,900]’
2,000
B. H. Souifh
.50 i
9 ■
3.31|
4 98,
5 32]
6 04, 12.37
800)],
8,350
1.5
2.0
C.R.A.
.50
8
5
14
10 901 Uli 40!
.3.101 4.94
14,300,
2,850
0.7
16
C'wealth Min.
1 00
10
2
78
3 40;
3 601
4.05>, 2.30,
5001;
300.
Cons. .Gold
1 00
10
4
25
6 90
6.961
7.40! 3 80
6,700
3,900
1 1.4
2.7
Hamersley
.50 j
1
8 10
8 70i|
9 50, 4 06
3,900]
12,100
■
K. 1. Scheel
.50
30
2
94
4 70 j
4 80.
4.901] 2.501
2,300,]'
2,700
Mount Isa
■50 ,
5
4
28
4 731;
4 85]
5 46.! 3 50
8,000,1
1,000
1.0
2.7
Mt. L.yell
.25
6 25
1
60'
1.62]
1 ■ 65,
1, 87| 1.24
2,300
400
1 3.8 10.2
JVlt. Morgan
1 00 |
22 5
3
43,
6 48']
6.501
6.50,' iZ 65! 1,800
3,750
>
■
New B.H.
.54
32 4
4
40
8 30
8 50.;
9.10] 4 04
800:]
900
3.2
5.1
North B.H.
1.00
25
4
26.
6 80
7. OOi]
8.I0; 3.21
4,2001
550
3.6
5.0
Oil Search
.50
14,
,44'i
41,!
.54] .3.12,
96,5001’
49,300
Ren* son
.50
8
051
5 861
5 90;
8.30! 5.60
700]
1,250
Santos
.25
1
601
2 00 i
2 08
2.351 lit 55
300‘,
200
West. M.n.
.50
15
/
02',
29.60: 29.50131.801 6.30i
3,800
3,880
0.3
0.5
Woodside
.50 :
921
1.60|
1.61,
1.90] .58
28,100;
36,800
■
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4 3
i oo;
,88|
.88',
1 034
.83]
10,9004 7,500
■ 4.9
8.3
Adams, W.
1 00
12 5
: 2.25,
1 8/1,
1 87!
2.4C
1.7C
2,800
800
■ 6.7
8.4
Adel. Steam.
.50
4
.70,
,75|
• 731
.90
.55
2,400, .1,600
5.5
6 6
Advertiser
50
5
1 67,
1 44,
1 451
1.74|
1.374
3.41 6.1
Allen, S.
1 00
10
1.9/1,
2 05
2 051
2 051
1.721
4.9
7.7
Allied Mills
.50
6
1 80,
1 48
1.48,
1.83,
1.45
16,300
1,200
4.1. 8.6
Amal. C'hem.
.50
•75,
.49,
.50)
,80|
.41!
3,6'00| 100
5.3
Ampol
.50
5
.62
.92,
.901 1 231
.5711
'21,7001 13,700
5 6| 6.7
Ansefct
.50
5
. 60
•65!
.63/
• 76j
.55]
5,30O| 5,000
7.91 10 2
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.24,
1 20
1.201
1.35
.88]
1,3001 1,30C
4.2
6.2
Assoc. Pulp
1 00
9
1.45,
1 50
1 481
1.53|
1 28|
1,1001 2,’20C
6.1
/ '8.1
A.N.Z. Bank
2 14
25.7
5.901
7.30
7.70|
8 871
5 '581
1001
2.9
5 4
A.C.I.
1 00
10
2 86
3 12'j
3.101
3.80
2 8C
1,700 5,400
3.2
6 5
Aust. Fert.
2 00
16
3 90
3 32ij
3 401'
4.60|
3.0C
1001
4.7
8.0
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1 58,
1.75,
1 801
.2 024
1 45|
2,000
2,800
4 2
7.4
A. Newsprint
2 00
20
3 80,
3 50,
4 OC
4 201
3 301
800| 1,000
5 O
5.4
A.P.M.
1 00
9
1.70!
1 40
1 40!
1.75!
1.281
19,0001 4,700
6.4
8.3
Aust. Chem.
1 00
10
1 85 j
1 50.
1.54
1.93|
1.50
200
6.5
7.0
A. K. Cement
.50
5
1 11
1 25,
1 30
1.30|
• 85|
9,300
1:0,200
3 8
6.7
A.U.C.
1 00
10
3 0 71
3 80
3 801
4.171
3 051
2.6
9.8
Bank Adel.
1 00
10
2.15,
2 52
2.50|
■2.55
2 021]
3,300
3,000
4 0
7.1
Bank N.S.W.
2 00
20
5 40
6 40:
6 50|
6.824
5.001
*,900
1,000
3.1] 5.3
Be,Iambi
.50
5
2 00
1 75,
1.75|
2.101
1 151
1,000
'
2.91 6.0
Berlei
1 00
15 '
2 80
2 50!
2 so;
2 9C
i
1 2E
6 0
13.3
B.M.I.
.50
7 5
1 52|
1 68
1.70!
1.774
1.43,
1,900
19,500
4.0,
6.3
Bonds Ind.
.50
7
1 20
1 34!
1 34
1 46
1.10
4.00
5 2
13 4
Boral
.50
10
1 98
1 80
1.85!
2 354'
1.73,
3,000
2,300
5 4| 8 1
Borg Warner
1 00
6
1 69
1 57,
1 57!
1.851
.381
700
3. a: 1 .
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
.65;
■ 731
.73
.79
.59
1,300
3,500
6 8
11.8
Brambles
.50
7.5
1 55
1 19!
1 15
1 36
.94
3,400
400
5 2
8 3
Brit. Tobacco
1 00
12
2 24|
2 54
2 46
2 921
2 24
6,000
400
4 9
7.8
B.H.P.
2 00
19 '
6 54,
15 30
L5.80
:
7 60
6 20
35,700
30,930
1 2
2.0
Bruck Mills
.50
6 25
•79!
1 05,
1 00
1 08
76
2,500
1,500
6 3
18.5
Burns Phi Ip
1 00
10
3 90
3.75]
3 85
4 20
3 50
700
900
2.6
7.4
C.U.B. “Z"
1.00
13
3.08,
3.70 j
3 65
3 70
2 90
2,600
2,200
3 6
6.4
Carp., W. R.
.50
8
2.32,
1.95]
1.96
2.38
1.83
6,300
1,500
4.1
7.6
Carrier Air
.50
5
■ 701
.80,
.80
1.02
.58
200
1,500
6 3
12 3
C'maine Per.
1.00
18
5.94,
7 08,
7 10
7.124'
5.66
1,200
2 5
5 4
Chamberlain
.50
6 25
1.63
1 62;
1 65
2 02
1.42
1,700
3.8
10.2
Clyde Ind.
.50
7 5
• 85,
•73]
.73
89
.60
8,500
10.3
11.7
Coal Allied
1.00
7
1 58
1.98,
1 97
2 25
1.34
2,400
400
3.6
10.2
Coles, G. J.
.50
5.5
1 25
1.191
1.20
1 26
1 11
12,500
18,900
4.6
6.8
C.S.R.
1.00
12
2 88|
4.54
4 51
5 42
2 78
7,100
15,350
2.8
4.8
'C.A.G.A.
1.00
10
1 52 l
1 57'
1 56
1.60
1 33
300
6 4
9.7
C.B.A.
1.00
10
2 00]
2 72,
2.70
3.08
1 92
11,900
4,300
3.7
5.5
C.B.C.
1.00
10 '
2 17
2 75]
2 62
2 97
2 09
10,500
3 8
7.9
Com. Union
.50
5 1
1 52
1.65,
1.62
1 85
1 25
3,700
2,000
3.11
5.8
C.I.G.
1 00
11
2.52
2.75;
2 80
2 82
2 05
2,500
1,000
3.9
7.1
Concrete Ind.
.50
2.5
.38
■39!
4?
51
.34
6,500
3,400
6.0
13.5
Consol. Press
.50
10
,2 64
4 15,
4 30
4 21
2 45
1,300
2.3
4 4
Containers
1.00
9
.1.601
1.90!
1.90
2 25
1.501
1,800
2,500
4.7
7.6
Courtauids
1.00
6
.46
.51
.50
.80
.421
1,100
900'
1,2.0
9 8
Crane, G. E.
1 00
If 1
5 20
4 05!
4 05
6.00|
1.60|
.2,200
3.5
6.7
Gresco
1.00
8
4.70]
2 55
2 55
2 561
2.30i|
100
3.1
10.5
Cust. Credit
.50
5 l
.77,
1 00
1 .06!
1 121
• 76|
500
>2,200i| 4.7
11.0
Cyclone
1.00
10
1 42i
1 25.
1.25!
1 701
1 24J
200
6001 8 0
10.2
Dalgety
2.14
25.7
4 72
4.70|
4 40
5.751
4.40|
1,300
5.0
8.5
D.F.C.
2.00
25
-6 00,
5 201
5 20|
6.30|
5.20|
4 8
10 2
Drug Houses
1 00
10
1 80
1 50]
1.501
1 92]
■1 40!
400i 1.5001 6.7
9.7
Dunlop
1.00
8 5
1.30;
1 79
1.82'
1.90
1 22
11,1200;
19,800! 4.4
6 8
E. M . 1.
. 50
9 '
2.10,
2 95
2.95,
3 00|
2 20!
3.1
7 8
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
14
2 68
3 25
3.15
4 40 (
2 071
1,900! 4.600
4 41 6.0
Elders, G. M.
1.00
11 '
2 57
2 22!
2 34
2 71|
2 004
1,504
200! 4.7
' 10.7
Elec. “B”
1.00
7
.54
. 82,
■ 81j
.951
.50!
7001 4,700! 8.6
14 0
Email
.50
5
.46
. 63
.70
.79
.42]
4,000
1,5001! 7.1
9 0
E .S. A.
2.14
21 4
5.20i
7 50
7 50 i
7 80!
4 501
100|
2.41 6 0
Evans Deakin
.50
6 2
i 16;
.58
.58!
1.254
.54]
2,0001
10 8
15 8
Fairfax, J.
.50
8.5
2.34
2.30
2 25|
2 63
2.051
2,000
1,200
3.8
5 6
Fairy me ad
1.00
6 '
1.42
1.16
1 22!
1.56
1.104
500
4 9
6.3
Felt Tex.
.50
5 '
.48
.54.
,55|
■61|
. 40'|
1,300] 4,300
9 1
11.9
Fibre Cent.
.50
7.5
1 51
1 80!
1 80|
2 101
1 551
7001 300
4.2
6.9
Fielding, J.
1.00
17 5
3 65
4 60
4 50|
5.55!
3.601
1,300'!
3 9
6 5
Gen. Credits
.50 ■
4
.59
.71!
.72
.. 72.1
.51
5,800
8,700
5.6
9 4
Gen. Ind.
2.00
12
1.35|
1.15
1 15
11.48
1.1C
3,,200
10.4
16.9
G oil in
.50
4.5
.70
■ 79|
.75
'
.804
..57;
8,700
' 8,100
6.7
13.5
Gordon Gotch
.50
10
2.10
1.86!
1.86
2.30!
■1.78
3004 100
5.4
■ 7.6
Grace Bros.
.50
6.6
1.77
2 311
2.27
2 544
1.54,
1,100
2.9
5.7
Healing, A. G
.50
■ 23|
■17
>.19
.25
■ 15|
37,000
17,000,
H a r d i e, J .
1.00
10
5.14.
4 30
4.25
5.34!
4.30]
6001
2 4
6.4
Herald, W. T
.50
15
4.471
5.24'
5 26!
6.46!
4.091
900
3,9501; 2.9
4 3
Hooker, L. J.
.50
38
.571
• 591
64!
.34
21,500
4,400
9.4
H umes
1.00
12.5
2 80
3 45]
3.40!
.3.68
■2.48
500
4,100
3.7
; 7.9
H uttons
.50
5
.90
.67]
.67
1.024'
.65
2,800
■ 2,500
7, 5
110.4
1 .A.C.
.50
6
. 89]
1.05
1.04;
1.12
.85
2,400
1 1,800, 5.8
10.4
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
1.00
7 5
1.90
2 00
1.99
2.;21
1.72
7,600
12,400
3.8
5 0
Inter. Resist.
.50
5
.89!
.50!
.504
,1.10'|.
.501
500
10.0
10.6
Jones, David
.50
6.7
1 42!
1.18 i
1 20
1.51]
1.14|
9,800
2,200
5.6
9.7
Jones, Henry
1.00
12
4.00,
2.'601
2.63,
4 204
■2.50]
2,400
1,000
4.6
10.5
Kauri
.50
.22
.19!
.'19!
.24!
.15
4,2001' 2,600
9.7
Kelvinator
.50
7.5
.921
1.41
1.42
1.99
1.35!
1,000
53
13.1
Koitaki
.50
6 2
i.5o;
.60
.604
.1.50
. 60,'
200
10.4
117.8
Lend Lease
.50
5.5
.80,
1.18 1
1.15]
1.25!
.80|
12,500
100
4.8
■8 8
Share
Par
Value
I Div.
[ cents
[ Year
1 ago
[Week
1 ago
1 Frl. | 1967
close |High |Low
| Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
1 Yield %
| Div.|Earn.
LC-fe Savers
.50
8
2.611. 2.301 2.30
2.761
2.-201 9001
3.5
7.4
Lysagh-t, J.
1.00
12
2 59
3.60
3.6C
3.95'
-2.521' 2,0001 2001 3.3
5 8
M.L.O.
2.00
31.-6
8.12
11.00
11.10113.401
8.121
6701 2.8
2.9
Manrvckvilile
.50
7.5
1 07
95
.97
1.24|
.901 4,500 2001 7.9
11.3-
Mauri Bros.
.50
5.2
2.05
2 05
2.02
2.32|
1.971
1 4001 2 5
5.2
M. N'.ckless
1.00
12.5
2 60
2 85
2 85
3.15
2 50
900
400
4.4
5.9
M-cl Iwra'ith, J.
.50
7.5
1.17
1 06
1.05
1 25
1.00
100
1,000
7.1
9.6-
Mi-llaquin
1.00
14
2.72
2 90
2.90
3.17
-2.451
100
4.8
5.8
Miller, -R. W.
1.00 ■
10 1
11.66-
a . 3i-
1 30
1 68|
1.25
5,700 3,400
7.7
14.3
M i nster
1.00
20
3 05
1.15
1-.20
3.30
1.001 1,0001 2.4001 16 7! 19 0
Morris, Philip
1.00
11
3 55
3 80
3 80
4.1C
2.36| 3,400-1 4001 2.9
13.7
Myer
.50
10
3 18
4.45
4.55
4 65
3.02 8,3001 10.5001 2.2
5.0
Mytt-ons
.50
6
1 41
- 1 15
1 15
1 45|
1.14
1 1.3001 -5 2
9.6
N.Z. Forest
1.00
9
2 63
2 21
2 20
2.751
2 07
4001 300
2 8
8.2
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
2 02
2 90
2.82
3.201
T.9-
5,600
|- 500
3.5
6.5
N at. Co n sol.
50
10
2.43
- 2 32
2 34
-2.55
1
2.15
1.200
5,400
4.3
8.8
Nat. Dairy
2 25
1 26
1 35.00
39 00
39.00140 30131 501
1
3 4
5 8
News
.50
6
1 57
2 -65
-2.65
2.75!
1 .'56| .100! 900
12.3
7.3
N.Z. Ins.
1.00
12
2 85
2 42
2 2C
3.001
2.30| 1001
4.4
8.2
Nylex
.50
5
.83
.93
.931 1.021
.701 6001 1.800
5 4
6.9
Olympic
.50
5
.69
.85
.85
.92
66
2,700
6,900
5.9
10.4
Optical
1 00
16
4 40
4 '60
4.60
4 83
3 70
4.2
7.2
Overseas
.50
6 5
1 25
1.55
1 55
1.70
1 27
1,300
4 2
7.5
P.G.H.
.50
7
1 10
.78
.78
1.24
72
1,100
9.0
13.8
Penfolds
.50
6 25
2 00
3 55
3 50
3.60
1 60
4,500
1.8
2.7
Peko
.50
11.25
2 17
6 30
6 38
6.90
2.00
118,800
9,950
1.8
3.6
Perp. Trustees
2.00
18
3 55
3.10
3.05
3.55
3.00
400
5.9
6.9
Pete-rsville
.20
2 5
.55
37
.37
.55
35
27,900
28,200
6 8
8.4
Peters W. A.
.50
6 25
1 -66
1.19
1 20
1.73
1.01
5 2
7.8-
Pioneer Cone.
.50
7.5
1.13
1.44
1.40
1.57
1.11
58,000
2,200
5.4
9.9
Prestige
.50
6 25
.74
.90
.90
.96
.75
800
6.9
13.5
Provincial Tr.
.50
5 5
1.03
1 10
1 10
1.16
.92
300
5.0
8.a
Pye
.50
5
1 05
85
.90
1.35
.66
900
5.6
13.9
Q’l'and Cement
2.00 i
22
7 85
- 5 88
5 88
6.45
5 70
3.7
7.3
Q’land Ins.
1.00
12.5
4 30
5 25
5.30
5.30
3.98
500
2.4
6.6
Q’lan-d Press
1.00 '
15
4 57
4 50
4.50
5 23
4.30
300
3.3
6.5
Reed
.50 i
8
1 60
2.10-
2.10
2.15
1 45
3.3
8.3
Rep co
.50
7.5
2 15
2 13
2 08
2.52
1 97
3,100
8,100
3.6
5.8
R-ocilia
.50
7.5 -
1 81
1 85
1.85
1.98
1 62
500
4 1
5.9
Rothmans
1.00 !
14
2.66
1 85
1.84
2.67 |
1 63
1,2001- 200
7.6
10.7
S. A. Rubber
.50 i
5 6
94
.83
.83
1 08!
.80
-500
7,700
6.7
10.3
Schweppes
.60
5 5
1 62
1 53
1 60
1.71
1 .40
7,100
4,200
3.4
5.6
S-h e II e-y s
.50
7.5
3.04,
2 90
2.90
3.02
2 90
2 6
8.2
S;mpson Pope
.50
1
.27
.29
.28
.38
.24
400
900
3.6
10.5
Sleigh, H. -C.
.50
5
.57-
.75
.78
.81
.551 4,6001 11,500
6.4
8.2
Smith, How.
1 00
10
2 77-
3 40
3.30
4.-20
2,60
3,600-1 1,900
3 0
6.0-
Softwood
1.00
10
2 30
1 95
1 95
2 481
1.17
5 1
11.9
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.00
14
3.60
3.40
3.40
4 03!
2 631 3,600
-
3 4
6.8
Steamships
.50
5
1.06
.58
.58
1.0E
,.55
4,600
600
8.6
15.9
Stedman, J.
.50
7.5
1.80
1 50
1 50
2 0C
1 20
20C
5 0
8.0
Swan Brew.
.50
6 5
2 34
3 30
3.30
3 . 60
2.20
500
2,600
2 2
3.5
T arax
.50
5
1.13
.82
.821 1.17-1
.72-1
6 1
6 8
T aubmans
.50 1
8
.96
.85
.88
1.21|
.83
26,000
9.1
10.3
TV Corp.
1.00
20 '
3 50
4 20
4 30
4 601
3 10
4,000
1,100
4 7
7 0
Thiess
.50
5
1 20
4 20
4 22
5.1C
1 02
-26,2001
1.2
5.-2
T ooheys
.50
4.5
1.13
1 17
1.19
1 21
.95
9,6001
3 8
6.1
T ooth
1.00 :
16 25
4.98
5.74
5.56
5.80
4.76| 2,400
3.0
4.1
U.E.B. Ind.
.50
5.5
1 20
.75
.75
1.2E
.751 600
7.6
11.3
U n i'O'n C-a-rb.
1 00
14
4 40
5 30
5 301 6.201
4.45| 10O|
2.6
5.9
Walker. F. J.
1.00
12 5 1
1 53-
1 07
1.15
1.73
1.03] 8O0|
10.9
6 4
Waltons
50
6 25
.93
.79
.84
1 05
.75! 1,300-1 10,300
7.4
10.3
Webster, A. G
.50
7.5
1.30-
1 00
1 001 1.381
1.001
7.5
13.7
Woo-lworths
.50
6 -
1.30
1 18
1 19
1.33|
1.13
28,100
3,400
5.0
6.9
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week 1
Friday
ago
last
ago ]
■last
All ordinaries .
440.51
446.43
148.63 1,
151.56
SO leaders .
169.52 ;
172.50
Brinks
214 .66
213.78
1411.45 .|
141.52
Other finances .
574.78 l
582.39
81.22 i!
81.67
Pastoral
'221.56
221.24
■113.05
116.93
Transport . .
457.48
457.48
93.36
91.87
Retail Merchants
331.04
334.19
100.48 i!
102.15
Services
1
55.07 i!
55.59
'Foods
201.78 i
1199.66
118.31 i
118.32
Textiles
.193.50
194.26
80.24 1
80.53
Chemicals .
■ 348.20
347.99
i 83.04 i|
82.89
Electricals .
429.78
435.83
66.59 '
66.03
Paper
■107.59
107.32
Building . ..
763.23
762.07
100.40
101.09
Automotive . .
787.77
766.20
■ 87.12 ,i
87.24
Fuel Power . .
■199.88
201.07
.[
Steel engineering
1070.51
1106.57
247.48 1
253.69
Non-ferrous . .
.
2143.64
'2216.58
418.98 l|
436.88
OIL
SUGAR
Week
Friday
Week 1
Friday
ago
last
ago [
■last
Brisbane . .
.2)17.66
218.50
103.27 'i
103.38
Melbourne .
194.83 ,| 193.28
■!
THE WEEK'S
TURNOVER
SYDNEY
!
MELBOURNE
1 N D USTR1ALj
MINING |l
NDUSTRIAL|
MINING
| Sales | Value 1
1 Vol. | S |
1 1000 | 1000 |
Sales
Vol. |
1000
| Value 1
$ 1
1 1000 |
Sales
Vol.
1000
| Value I
1 $ I
1 1000 |
Sales J Value
Vol. | $
1000 | 1000-
Week before . .
Week .to Friday . . . .
. . .. | 33611 .] 5317 |
2655 'I
982 1
27.15 II
■1162 |,
2956
765
•1 5623 l|
| 1509 :|
2490 | 3267
587 i|, 1105
OVERSEAS INDEXES
[
London
1
New
York | Tokyo
| Financial Times '
Dow
Jones [D. Jones
1 Inds.
Secs. |
Gold
1 nas.
Rails | Avge.
Jan.
. 1967
313.4
78.311
51.9 1
786.41
205.1611444.35
1967
hiigh
415.5
81 85|
68 4
934.351
272 9911506 27
1967
ow
78.27111
47.3 ill 791.14;
2015.3111253.24
Month
ago
420.60
76.281:
62.8 il,
875 81i!
233 86;,1284.68
Week
ago '
389.5
76.68;
■l'
888.35|,
231.0011290.29
389.2
76.56|'
65.6 If
905.ia,|
1233.24,1279.29
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
AND STATISTICS
The last three trading days of 1567 naturally produced very
light dealings but saw leader stocks finish tolerably firm and
some important miners on a rising trend. BHP attracted more
prominence, gaining 50 cents to close at $15.80 some 140
percent above its 1966 close. ACI, CSR, and ICI each shed
a few cents yet looked soundly based for the new year.
Western Mining dropped back 10 cents to $29.50; Great
Boulder managed a 75-cent addition to reach $7.50. Hamersley
moved up 60 cents to $8.70. Barrier issues went strongly, with
North BH up 20 cents and Broken Hill South up 34 cents.
YIELDS
0RD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY \
average dividend .. 5.39
MELBOURNE
dividend 4.82
earnings 7.73
LON D>0 N .(F.T.)
'dividend 4 84
earnings 5.73
NEW YORK i(S -& P)
dividend 3.51
earnings 6.70
C'WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
'Short .. .. 4.66 4.67
Medium ... 5 00 5.02
Long ,, ,, 5.25 5.25


wm ED
COMPANIES
WITH
ACCUMULATED
PROFIT
including companies
which have outlived
their usefulness
Immediate
cash settlement
can be arranged
QUESTER
PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE, Box 1472 V,
G.P.O. Brisbane 2 0501
SYDNEY 29 1451
MELBOURNE 51 1548
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP TASMANIA
No. M. 67 of 1967
IN THE MATTER of the WILL of
JOSEPH BATT late of Hobart in Tas-
mania Boot and Shoe-maker, deceased.
Between JAMES THOMAS JOHN
OUTHBERTSON, WILLIAM WAL-
LACE McCALLUM and RONALD
CAMERON SMITH Plaintiffs and
THE HOBART PUBLIC HOSPITALS
BOARD and THE BOARD OF MAN-
AGEMENT OF SCOTS PRESBY-
TERIAN CHURCH (incorporating St.
Andrew’s and Chalmer’s Church) De-
fendants. To the next-of-kin of
JOSEPH BATT, deceased: JOSEPH
BATT late of Hobart in Tasmania,
Boot and Shoe-maker,, died on the
Nineteenth day of May 1897 and his
estate now falls for distribution accord-
ing to the terms of his Will. An appli-
cation to the abovenamed Court is pro-
ceeding and it may transpire that the
next-of-kin of Joseph Batt deceased
are entitled to share in the distribu-
tion. Joseph Batt’s nearest relative was
his widow Matilda Batt (nee Milliken)
who survived. If any person being next-
of-kin of Joseph Batt deceased wishes
to be heard in these proceedings he or
she should enter an appearance within
28 days either personally or by solicitor
at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Hoibart, in Tasmania. William Wallace
MeCallum is a descendant of a sister
of Matilda Batt and he has (subject
to objections) been appointed 'by the
Court to represent all next-of-kin of
Joseph Batt deceased. If any next-of-
kin wishes to be represented indepen-
dently, then he or she should forward
an objection in writing to the under-
signed within 28 days. DATED this 13th
day of December, 1967.—BUTLER
Mclntyre & butler, solicitors, 22
Murray Street, Hobart, in Tasmania.
SPECULATOR’S
DIARY
Into the new
year with
a vigneron
THE CHRISTMAS PARTIES are
over, New Year’s Eve has been sur-
vived, and here it is 1968. Another year
of buying and selling, hoping and pray-
ing, searching and seeking, and battling
with the ulcer lies ahead. I wonder
what it will hold? As mentioned a few
week? ago, I think it’s going to be
another year for the miners rather than
the industrials. The rise of just under
120 percent expected by the Minister
for National Development in mineral
exports over the next five years makes
it hard for the industrials to compete.
So does the recent and much criticised
decision by the Arbitration Commission
on wages. This will really put the
squeeze on industrial profits this year.
So much for the crystal ball. After
all that Christmas and New Year
cheer, my first choice for 1968 seems
a logical one. It is Lindeman Hold-
ings. This company was formed in
1843 and, like Johnny Walker, it’s still
going strong. It owns the Cawarra,
Sunshine, Ben Ean, Porphry and
Coolalta vineyards in the lush and
famous Hunter Valley of New South
Wales. Other well-known properties in
the group’s stable include the Chateau
Leonay vineyard at Tanundra and the
Florita vineyard at Watervale, in South
Australia. Currently the company’s
shares are selling for $3.82 well be-
low the high of $4.50 reached in the
latter part of last year. The reason
for the fall had nothing to do with
profits, which were well up to expecta-
tions, but was caused by disappoint-
ment in the fact that the much-
rumored bonus issue did not come to
pass. Still, it seems feasible that an issue
will not be too far away. In fact, there
are many indications that it could be
this year. First is the company’s
previous record of issues. Bonus hand-
outs, over the past couple of years,
have been on a regular, two-yearly
basis. A 2-for-5 was made in October,
1962, a similar issue was made again
in July, 1964, and this was in turn
followed by a l-for-7 in October, 1966.
On that basis, 1968 looks to be the
year. Second is the fact that the com-
pany can well afford it. The last
dividend payout was comfortably
covered twice over by earnings.
Thirdly and finally is the chairman’s
statement at the last annual meeting.
He said, “If we are able to continue
increasing our production from our own
resources (which I’m sure they can)
and at the same time maintaining a
satisfactory level of sales (no worries
here from what I hear at the bottle
shop), then further benefits should in
the course of time, accrue to our share-
holders.” All a bit guarded (still I
guess this is expected from chairmen),
yet, nevertheless, encouraging. Also en-
couraging is Lindeman’s profit picture.
Since 1963 the company has doubled
earnings and hasn’t had a year when
profits didn’t increase, the smallest of
the increases being 12 percent and the
largest 27 percent. Couple this with
the industry situation of demand almost
outstripping supply, add in the recent
price rise for good measure, and
Lindemans looks a really good buy.
Further, it’s a way of having a hair of
the dog that bit you; and profiting
from it (I hope).
My second buy for 1968 was Kern
Bros. This is the Queensland building
company. It operates a home-building
and land-development business in
Townsville and to a lesser degree Bris-
bane and around the Gold Coast. In
addition to this it is also involved in
the production of blue metal and
ready-mixed concrete. However, the
feature that appeals most about the
company is the fact that it is operating
in Townsville, and that it also owns
a sizable chunk of the place. Towns-
ville is one of the fastest-growing cities
in Australia; consequently it is one of
the prime areas in the country for land
investment. This is even more so now
that the Army has decided to station
a large proportion of its regulars there.
All this goes well for Kern Bros. Not
only is the company currently erecting
about 25 percent of all private homes
in the area, but it also personally owns
over 1500 acres in the area which are
suitable for subdivision and develop-
ment. This should ensure healthy
profits for a good many years to come.
To add to the company’s appeal as an
A 1 investment, is its excellent profit
record. Since 1962 net profit has risen
from $34,000 to $103,000 without miss-
ing a beat. And this has been without
a change in ordinary capital. This all
adds up to one thing to me buy. I
did, 200 at $3.70.
BOUGHT
200 Lindemans $3.82 $779
200 Kern Bros. $3.70 $775
Shares Company Date Cost per
Boug'ht Share Price
300 Worm-aid 8/3/67 .75 .59
200 Allied iMillls 2-6/4/67 1 69 1.45
200 Chamberlain 3/5/67 1 67 1.65
200 R. W. iMlllier 14/6/67 1.35 1.30
200 -Howard Smith 25/7/67 '3.34 3.30
300 IR-alta 'H-olkJ-i-ngs 25/7/67 .56 .46
300 William 'Adams 17/8/67 2.112 1.87
200 Ste-ghar 17/8/67 1.46 1.55
-200 Tiho-mas 'Nalt. T-ran-s. 17/8/67 1.30 1.42
200 -Westnal'ian 29/8/67 1.17 1.15
500 100-ncrete 'l'md. 30/8/67 .47 .40
000 Tihiess 5/9/67 2 18 4.18
400 Trade 'Credits 20/9/67 1.119 1 10
300 'Bennett & Wood 3/10/67 1.35 11.40
300 -Nyilex 3/10/67 .95 .93
350 'H'i'lton Co-rp. 10/10/67 1.08 1.08
300 Bm-a'i'l 07/10/67 .71 .68
500 ‘Planet
10c -paid 26/10/67 . 27. .27
200 Hunter -D-ouglas 2/11/67 2 35 2 50
300 Trdloa-r 15/11/67 1.05 1.10
500 Uam es 'Wa'l I'a-ce 15/11 /67 .40 .39
200 'BIH'P 'l5/11/67 16 95 15.45
200 Bonds Industries 22/11/67 1.45 1.34
200 Yar-ra Falls -7/12/67 1.10 1.112
1000 A. 'G. Hea'l-inig 14/12/67 .17 .18
200 'L-indemans -27/li2/67 3 82 3 82
200 -Kern Bros. 28/12/67 3.70 3.70


Inwest in
INDUSTRIALACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBEHTWE STOOM
Paid up capital
$25,000,000
/
0
2
0
FOR 5 YEARS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details. Prospectus and application
form available from:
• BROKERS - lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK
EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
ASK A.N.Z* FOR DETAILS
13548
Security analysis
Rigby: a bookseller’s bonanza
RIGBY LIMITED IS traded only on
the Adelaide Stock Exchange and the
shares are scarce and hard to come by.
Well, why bother looking at it? The
company is currently, in the middle of
a bonanza, which is in its own way
just as exciting as the mining boom.
There are not that many companies
growing as fast as Rigby. Over the
past four years, total assets have in-
creased by a cumulative 79.1 percent,
pre-tax profit by 128.5 percent, and
net profit after tax by 110.4 percent.
Not a bad effort for a book company!
Born in 1859 in Adelaide as a retail
shop selling books and stationery,
Rigby Ltd. still has an interest in this
field. However, its main activity is now
centred in its Australia-wide publishing
and book-wholesaling business, with
branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Perth, in addition to the Adelaide
head office. A new head-office building
with two floors, both of an acre in
area, is currently under construction in
Adelaide. Advertiser Newspapers Ltd.,
whose Griffin Press is frequently used
by Rigby as its print house, holds about
5 percent of the issued capital.
Rigby came into more general
prominence recently with the runaway
success of its book “The Australians,”
in which Robert B. Goodman, the
American photographer, collaborated
with George Johnston to produce a
record best - seller. Almost 100,000
copies have been sold in four editions.
The first edition in 1966 of 35,000
copies retailing at $7.95 sold in three
days. The second edition and later re-
prints have retailed for $8.95. A U.S.
edition of 20,000 copies published by
Time-Life was another part of the
sweet success of this book.
About two-thirds of this Australian
publisher’s catalogue, which runs into
about 250 titles (excluding imported
books), is in general literature and the
balance is in educational books. In
general books, Rigby have done well
with their “Sketchbook Series,” in
which artistic interpretations of old and
interesting buildings of Australian cities
have caught readers’ fancy. The range
of other titles is wide: Kenneth Slessor
and Robert Walker’s “Life at (Kings)
Cross,” Keith Smith’s Riddle Books,
A. D. Hope’s “Essays on Poetry,” Sir
Donald Bradman’s “How to Play
Cricket,” and so on. In educational
titles, Rigbys have a three-year course
of secondary science books, a secon-
dary mathematics series, a five-book
set to help young children learn words
through association with pictures. A
new program-learning series is “Lant-
jar Berahasa,” the first oral-aural study
of Indonesian to be published in this
country. The course consists of a basic
text and 11 tape-recordings.
As a wholesaler, Rigby represents the
U.K. educational publishers Oliver and
Boyd, along with A. Wheaton and Co.,
Gall and Inglis, Fideler, Wells Gardner
Barton, and Cram Globes. Rigby lost
the agency business of Holt, Rinehart
and Winston (from June, 1967), who
have opened their own Australian
office. In their place, Rigby gained the
Australian agency business of Paul
Hamlyn (from January, 1968) who
put out a range of cookery, technical,
and children’s books. Rigby expected
a drop in sales and gross profit from the
cessation of Holt, Rinehart and Wil-
son’s business, but only in the short
term.
The Australian book trade is cur-
rently growing at over ten percent a
year. With annual sales of approxi-
mately $4l million (at wholesale
value), about 20 percent of the market
is held by Australian publishers and
the balance is made up of imports
mainly from the U.K. and the U.S.A.
Rigby is well positioned to take ad-
vantage of the main trend in the Aus-
tralian book market toward more and
more non-fiction books with a local
background and toward more sophisti-
cated educational books.
The statistics are as follows:
19613 1964 WtS 1966 1i9167
Values s'ooo
Ordinary (capital 176 4716 4716 476 601
Ond. s’lholiders’ funds 548 1160 1524 ,1306 11540
Total assets 12612 1778 1879 2192 2260
Pre-tax profit 11119 128 2(15 249 272
Net profit after tax 77 84 125 145 1612
Ond. dividend 212 2(2 60 60 60
Adj. earn ing per
sihare i(cerrts) 9.9 10.5 111.6 13.2 1!6.9
Adj. dividends per
share l(icents) 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5 6.3
'Return to ord. s’ll oldens
funds % 14.0 7.2 10.2 10.3 10.5
Dividend payout
ratio % 28.6 26.2 48.0 41.5 37.0
PropriietoirShiiip
ratio % 43.4 65.3 65.1 59.6 68.2
Tax to pre-tax
iProfit % 35.3 39.1 41.9 41.8 40.4
Share prices higlh
l(soic par) 1.50
Low 1.10
Earnings per share have grown by
70.7 percent over the four years 1963-
1967. A new l-for-4 issue at par was
made in May, 1967, with dividends
ranking from July, 1967. Current
market price, at $1.12 to show a
dividend yield of 5.6 percent, gives a
price/earnings ratio of 6.7, compared
to a p/e ratio of 12.8 for Angus and
Robertson.
IF I WERE YOUR SHARE AD-
VISER I would recommend you to
keep Rigby in mind for purchase if
its shares become more freely available.
Personally, I would have preferred
shares in Rigby in my Christmas stock-
ing to a copy of “The Australians.”
In two or three years’ time, Rigby’s
shares could be more worthwhile hold-
ing than the “penny nickel” stocks.


WHITELEAF HOTEL
66/68 Inverness Terrace, London, W 2.
Park 0681 Small Luxury Hotel BAYswater 1826.
Full Central Heating. Radio and internal tele-
phone in aM I rooms. Near parks, Bayswater/
Queensway Tube Stn.
Bed and Breakfast.
S 5 and $6, single or $8 with private toilet and
shower. Double $lO or $l2 with private toilet
and shower.
ADIJLT BOOKS
FOR FREE PRICE LIST OF
PRIVATE ADULT BOOKS
WRITE NOW TO:
JAMES L. CANNON
BOX 71, P. 0., TWEED HEADS,
N.S.W.
Chemistry Teacher Required
Forms Five and Six
Maths Middle School. Qualifications:
Registration. Good Refs, essential.
Apply Principal:
ST. LEO'S COLLEGE,
HAY ST., BOX HILL 3128
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND
To: lAN JAMES ANDERSON whose
present whereabouts are unknown:
TAKE NOTICE that AILSA MARY
ANDERSON of Flat 1, Richmond Flats,
Hilderstone Street, Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland,
has commenced an action for the disso-
lution of her marriage against you by
Mat. Pet. No. 768 of 1967 on the ground
of separation. If you wish to defend
this action you must file an Answer
in the Registry of the Supreme Court
at Brisbane in the said State within
twenty-one days from the date of
publication hereof. You may Obtain
without charge a copy of the Petition
and the Notice of Petition from Messrs.
Sholto Douglas & Douglas, Solicitors,
101 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, afore-
said.—(L.S.) K. C. CRAWFORD, Third
Deputy Registrar.
To: WOLFGANG BERTH OLD
ULLRICH, whose last known address
was 56 Payne'ham Road, St. Peters, in
the State of South Australia. TAKE
NOTICE that UTE ULLRICH has pre-
sented a -petition to the Supreme Court
of South Australia in Suit No. 3983
of 1967 in which she claims against
you an order for dissolution of mar-
riage on the ground of cruelty and also
orders for the custody of PETER
ULLRICH, the child of the marriage,
maintenance for the said child and
herself and costs. Unless you file an
Answer or Notice of Address for Service
in this suit at the office of the Master
of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia at Adelaide within 60- days of
the publication of -this advertisement
orders may be made against you in
your absence. P. F. & PAM CLiELAND,
Azalea House, Waterfall Gully Road,
EEAUMONT, S.A. Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
ADVERTISING RATES
As from 6th January, 1968, advertising
rates for Legal Notices will be $1.20
per line for advertisements in a 20-em
column; 80 cents per line for advertise-
ments in a 13-em column.
Mining
Favored minerals for 1968
THE FESTIVE SEASON was not very
kind to shareholders of Greenbushes
Tin. The company has written over
$1.2 million off the value of plant, and
directors have stated that there is little
doubt that the decision made to dredge
the company’s mining property has
proved to be wrong. While the amount
of mineral as originally assessed is still
in the ground, the company has been
unable to recover payable quantities
due to the presence of clay which has
made dredging operations uneconomic.
The company is to attempt to build up
a profitable operation from alternative
methods of mining the deposit by dry
mining and/or sluicing methods, but it
will be some time before the success of
these operations can be gauged.
In these times, when several almost
forgotten mining companies are once
again seeing the light of day, it is
interesting to recall that in 1956 West-
ern Queen purchased the plant and
leases of another company which
attempted to make a success of tin
and tantalite mining at Greenbushes.
This company was Tin and Strategic
Minerals Limited, which was formed in
1954 and which, after making losses
in its first two years of operation,
finally had a receiver appointed in
1959.
Events at Greenbushes come as a
timely reminder that not all mining
companies will be successful, even when
they have reached the stage of turning
public. Yet looking back over the public
issues of mining shares during the past
12 months, the immediate impression
is that the year has been outstanding
for both the number of mining com-
pany flotations and more particularly
in the quality of the companies which
have entered the public lists this year.
Cudgen RZ was the first newcomer
to the public lists last year, followed by
Mining Traders, and it comes as a
slight surprise to realise Hamersley
Iron has only been traded since the
end of last May. Great Northern Tin
followed in September, then Consoli-
dated Rutile and Queensland Mines
in October, and Mineral Deposits pro-
vided a Christmas box to clients of
lan Reid & Co. a couple of weeks ago.
All in all, a very good year for the
stags.
It was also a good year for investors
in uranium companies; in April the
future of this mineral was highlighted
by the Government’s restrictions on
exports of uranium ore, and in Sep-
tember the local shortage of uranium
was spotlighted by the announcement
that Peko-Wallsend Investments and
E.Z. Industries Limited, in conjunc-
tion with Newmont Mining of the
U.S.A., would spend $1.2 million on a
three-year program of exploration for
uranium covering leases held in the
Northern Territory by United Uranium.
The partners in this program stated
that the search was aimed at delineating
reserves of uranium in the light of
world forecasts of a shortage of this
mineral in a few years’ time.
There were several other mileposts,
too; the final arrangements for the
financing of the Mt. Newman iron ore
development were completed and these
resulted in the project having a 60
percent Australian content quite an
achievement considering the size of
funds required to develop this opera-
tion.
It was, of course, really a nickel-
plated twelve months; the addition of
that word itself was sufficient to bring
about speculative runs on various
shares and the intense interest in pos-
sible nickel-bearing areas caused the
Western Australian Government to
withhold the granting of new temporary
reserves in order to prevent the tying
up of large areas of ground. Last year
also saw the establishment of a nickel
ore body by Great Boulder although
to date this is of only marginal grade.
So much for last year; the coming
twelve months should prove even more
interesting as it will be in this period
that the success or otherwise of the
many ventures started this year will be
determined. In this respect the coming
year will perhaps be fairly critical for
those companies which have been
favored more on account of their ex-
ploration programs than on prospects
for higher metal sales and production
from existing operations. This applies
particularly in the case of companies
prospecting in Western Australia and
here again events at Greenbushes must
be a timely reminder, especially while
Renison Limited continues to have
trouble recovering the metallic content
of the ore it mines. No doubt these
factors are exercising the minds of
the management of Cleveland Tin,
which is to commence mining very
shortly. Events during 1968 at this
mine will certainly be critical for the
future of this much-vaunted operation.
Should prediction of some likely
developments for 1968 be warranted,
the favored minerals would be rutile,
uranium, and coal. The troubles being
experienced by the new rutile mine in
Sierra Leone could well mean higher
prices for spot rutile and for the
Consolidated Rutile-Cudgen RZ group
in particular this year will be a test-
ing one. Additional contracts for the
supply of coal to Japan will almost
certainly be won by companies operat-
ing in Australia, and it would be sur-
prising if the next twelve months did
not see the establishment of new de-
posits of uranium in Australia.


Legal Notices
To MR. VITO INTINI whose last
known address was Wayville In the
State of South Australia. TAKE
NOTICE that Barbara Jane Intini has
presented a petition in the Supreme
Court of South Australia in Suit No.
3609 of 1967 in which she claims
against-you an order for dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion
(notwithstanding the facts and cir-
cumstances set out in the discretion
statement filed herein) and also orders
for custody pending suit, permanent
custody and costs. Unless you file an
answer or notice of address for service
in the Office of the Master of the
Supreme Court of South Australia at
Adelaide within 60 days of the publi-
cation of this advertisement orders
may toe made against you in your
absence. —P. F. & PAM CLELAND,
Azalea House, Waterfall Gully Road,
BEAUMONT, South Australia, Solici-
tors for the petitioner.
Re BARBARA ASPTNALL deceased:
Will Charles Aspinall who went to Aus-
tralia about 1913 and lived in Mel-
bourne and had a son George and a
daughter Kathleen and who is the
brother of the above deceased, late of
Halifax, England, please communicate
with Moore Shepherd & Whitley Solici-
tors of 14 Portland Place, Halifax,
England, where he will learn something
to his advantage or if the said Charles
Aspinall is now deceased will any of
his children or other descendants
answer this advertisement.
THE LAND
Agrisearch
How to teach animals
social adjustment
THE STRESS OF MODERN living in
the highly urbanised State of Victoria
has created a fearsome tangle of social
problems and aberrations with which
the Chief Secretary and Attorney-
General, the Hon. Mr. A. G. Rylah,
tussles manfully. At home in the crazy
Melbourne suburb of Kew, with its
huge asylums for the deranged, his
veterinary wife finds that the dog
population is scarcely less disturbed by
the mentally insanitary atmosphere of
the environment.
To operate her small-animal practice
successfully she has had to take into
account the psychological state of the
patients and the social conditions under
which they have to live. Many of the
dogs being brought in for treatment
are either mildly or acutely neurotic
as a result of improper upbringing by
their masters or failure to adapt to
their surroundings. Apart from learning
veterinary medicine, Mrs. Rylah had
to become a student of animal and
human behaviour in order to be able
to instruct both errant dogs and people.
Clearly, veterinary practice demands a
high degree of virtuosity. It is no won-
der that the profession is currently
moving to have its members assume-
the courtesy title of “doctor.”
Writing in the “Australian Veterinary
Journal” under her professional name,
Ann F. Flashman, she reminds us that
animals go through a brief, critical
period early in their lives when they
are capable of acquiring social habits
and when their attitudes become fixed.
Sheepmen are only too familiar with
this, and poultry farmers are often
amused by its expression. Lambs a few
hours old learn which ewes are their
mothers and it is only with the greatest
difficulty that they can be made to
accept other ewes as foster-mothers.
The lamb that followed Mary to school
was probably taken from its mother
very soon after birth. Chickens, duck-
lings, or goslings hatched in an incu-
bator accept a human as the maternal
figure and utterly reject adults of their
own kind. Poultry that are to be kept
in constantly lighted batteries should
be given the opportunity of experienc-
ing darkness before they are a week
old. If not, and later in life the lights
cut out for a few minutes, many are
likely to die of fright. The German
biologist Oscar Heinroth in 1910 called
this acute learning and socialisation
period the “pragung” or imprinting
stage.
According to Miss Flashman, this
critical stage in dogs lasts from when
they are three weeks old to three
months, but is at a peak at five to
seven weeks. If a dog is to grow up
happy. and well adjusted to human
society it must be handled a lot during
this period, introduced to other people,
and, of course, other dogs. And to
things, such as guns, cars, and houses
if you want your dog to feel at home
indoors. Naturally, sheep-dog pups
should be shown sheep. Dogs reared
in relative seclusion and having had
but a limited range of experiences grow
up timid and cantankerous and on
meeting new situations, people or dogs,
bite out of fear.
Confinement also makes dogs cranky.
Most breeds, certainly the larger ones,
would naturally roam over a territory
of at least 100 square miles. A
suburban backyard bores them crazy;
they might just as well be kept on a
chain. The pack instinct is another
phenomenon which must be considered
in training. A dog strives to become
top dog, but, once it finds its niche
in any social set-up, it is content. Thus,
a dog having identified himself as be-
longing to a human pack will challenge
each member in turn. If not slapped
down it will become an unpredictable
and tyrannical boss. The trouble is
many people can’t recognise when a
young dog is throwing out its challenge.
In mentioning her interest in animal
behaviour, Mrs. Rylah is in exalted
company. She is following the foot-
steps of many of the world’s pre-
eminent biologists of the past hundred
years. The great Charles Darwin was
perhaps the first to realise the broad
implications of this subject when he
wrote a book about it in 1872 entitled
“Expression of the Emotion in Man
and Animals.” After him comes a long,
star-studded list in which occur the
names Spalding, Sherrington, Pavlov,
Wertheimer, Wolfgang Kohler, Koffka,
Gestalt, Lloyd Morgan, Julian Huxley,
Wallace Craig, and Jennings. Especi-
ally noteworthy are Heinroth (already
mentioned), Konrad Lorenz, Karl
Lashley, C. O. Whitman, and, most
recent to join the cast, R. A. Hinde,
of the University of Wisconsin, and
the Spaniard Jose M. Delgado, cur-
rently working at Yale University.
These people have not merely told
us how and why animals of many
species behave as they do, but put a
scientific foundation under the dabblers
in human psychology and sociology.
The animal behaviourist is, in very
truth, the authority behind enlightened
politics and social legislation. Professor
Hinde’s book, published a few months
ago by McGaw-Hill, “Animal Be-
haviour: a synthesis of ethology and
comparative psychology,” is a master-
ful and fascinating exposition for any
reader who first takes the trouble to
become acquainted with the jargon.
Hinde’s most celebrated work was with
the rhesus monkey, an animal that lives
in family groups. He used them as ex-
perimental substitutes for humans. He
has, for instance, clearly shown uncon-
ventional, anti-social, and violent be-
haviour in adult monkeys (people?)
who, although always provided with
every material comfort, had limited
access to their mothers during infancy.
Evidence of such effects on a man can-
not be obtained directly because the
circumstances of his life are far too
complex to allow any one influence
to be isolated and studied; besides, his
life span is too long. One gathers that
Mrs. Rylah would not treat a vicious
dog by hanging and one wonders
whether Mr. Rylah ever listens to what
she has to say.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
ENTERTAINMENT
Sydney Theatre, 1967
In search of liveliness
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
AN ACTOR who is a friend of mine
asked me recently: “What do you really
feel about going to the theatre so con-
stantly? It must often be very dreary,
isn’t it?” “Unlike you,” I replied, “I
really like going to the theatre and,
besides, I am able to write what I
think afterwards.” But I am sure there
are a lot of people who would go to
the theatre more often if it seemed to
them livelier, and more comfortable,
and who do not go now because they
share my friend’s feeling that it is
dreary. They are the kind of people
who go to the theatre constantly when
they are in London and rarely, or
never, when they are at home in Aus-
tralia. Doubtless, there are a number
of reasons for this, but the main one
is simply that London theatre is of a
higher standard.
For those of us who enjoy going to
the play, even in the present unsatis-
factory state of our theatre, the most
exciting development this year has been
the overnight transformation of the
Independent Theatre into a genuine
repertory theatre, with a permanent
company. It is yet one more sign of
the indomitable spirit and unquench-
able enthusiasm of Doris Fitton, and
the members of her theatre, that a
small grant of $BOOO from the State
Government should have enabled this
new flowering of the Independent.
The advantages of the repertory
system for the audience are immedi-
ately obvious. In the first place there
are far more productions, which helps
to keep them interested and in training.
In the first ten months of 1967 the
Independent mounted six productions.
By the end of the first ten weeks of
the repertory system there will have
been five new productions.
Secondly, the Independent has been
able to plan a balanced season of plays
giving dates of performances two
months ahead, with three or four dif-
ferent plays in each week. The first
six plays in the repertoire include two
revivals of modern classics, “The Cock-
tail Party” and “Getting Married,” two
new plays from London, “Staircase”
and “A Scent of Flowers,” one almost-
new Australian play, “Halloran’s Little
Boat” (performed last year at the tiny
Jane Street Theatre), and one new
German play, “The Investigation.”
The Old Tote, which, until lately
joined by the Independent, was Syd-
ney’s only professional theatre playing
serious drama, has mounted five pro-
ductions in 1967. My chief complaint
is that this is not enough, but the Old
Tote is hampered by the smallness of
its theatre. However, plans have been
drawn up and an appeal launched for
a fine new theatre.
Meanwhile, it has been an unad-
venturous year apart from Pinter’s
“The Homecoming” in an excellent
production by John Clark. Otherwise,
my general impression is of period
comedies, lavish costumes, youthful
exuberance with a tendency to over-
acting, and no real discipline of style.
In spite of abundant talent and promise
shown by the NIDA graduates, the de-
cision to cast future productions mainly
from their ranks must surely restrict the
Old Tote’s future choice of plays.
The established amateur theatres
have kept going as always, catering to
their small, specialised audiences. The
Ensemble is the most attractive physi-
cally and probably the most successful
in its box-office, but its staple diet of
middlebrow American comedy fills me
with tedium. The highlight of their year
for me was Arthur Miller’s “Incident
at Vichy,” a play which is actually
about something.
The New Theatre offered its usual
mixture of Left-wing plays and the
heartier classics. Most of their Left-wing
plays are very old-fashioned, but it
was interesting to see “Macbird,” which
is new and quite sinister in its nasti-
ness.
The Genesians gave some respectable
productions of Shakespeare and Piran-
dello, useful for students and teachers.
It is to be hoped that one day they
and the New Theatre will have more
attractive theatres, which might win
them wider audiences. Another hope is
that we may have a theatre where
Shakespeare may be performed without
makeshift. Peter O’Shaughnessy’s am-
bitious production of “Othello” for the
Arts Council was not helped by the
drab Conservatorium theatre.
Mr. O’Shaughnessy was much more
successful with his production of
“O’Flaherty, VC” for the “Q” theatre
and with his two excellent one-man
shows, “You Wouldn’t Read About It”
and “Lawson.” In fact, the one-man
shows would bid fair to be the most
successful artistic achievements of the
year. Peter O’Shaughnessy was joined
in this form by Rob Inglis with his
“Canterbury Tales” and John Llewel-
lyn with “Dylan Thomas Revisited.”
An example of the kind of standards
Sydney's Old Tote. . . an impression
of period comedies, lavish costumes,
youthful exuberance, and no real dis-
cipline of style
our theatre might aspire to was given
by the brief visit of the French com-
pany Le Treteau de Paris, with two
productions, Anouilh’s “Antigone” and
Moliere’s “Les Femmes Savantes.” With
these unpretentious but perfectly
finished productions we had a glimpse
of a kind of wit and style which is
obviously the product of a long tradi-
tion.
The kind of liveliness seen in these
productions is a very different kind
from that expressed in the London
theatre today, but both kinds are largely
absent from our theatre. Our theatre is
busy, hard-working, bent on develop-
ing techniques, and administrative
skills. But perhaps the time has come
to try to inject some new ideas. How
is it to be done? Perhaps by inviting
some young directors from other
countries to work here, even if only
for a few months. A few visiting lec-
turers, as well, might stimulate new
ideas. We probably cannot afford visit-
ing companies, because the theatre
needs money desperately for new
buildings. New buildings and new ideas
might attract new audiences and new
dramatists.


Melbourne theatre, 1967
Curtain rises,
heart sinks
By PHILLIP ADAMS
FIFTY-ODD TIMES this year I’ve
struggled over knees and feet to an
invariably uncomfortable theatre seat
with an utter lack of anything like
nervous expectation. For theatregoing,
like acting itself, is a notoriously un-
rewarding occupation, and usually my
heart sinks as the curtain rises.
This, I’m convinced, is the only way
to avoid disappointment in Melbourne
theatre. You must expect the worst, as
you very often get it. Sadly, there seems
to have been more bad plays, poor pro-
ductions and appalling performances
this year than most. But there have
also been some beautiful moments,
made more precious by their unac-
countable rarity.
So now I propose handing out some
metaphoric Toscas the Tosca being,
of course, a theatrical Oscar. And while
they’re more hypothetical than
statuesque, I trust their recipients will
realise that they’re presented with deep
gratitude and respect.
First, the performers. Let’s dispense
with the over-promoted proficiency of
Amanda Reiss, Nancye Hayes, and
Mark McManus, as the work of greatest
value was invariably found in the little
theatres.
As far as actors were concerned, no
single performance stands out. How-
ever, two actors have been consistently
excellent. Sydney Conabere and Robin
Ramsay have earned their Toscas in
a dozen roles. Ramsay is an actor of
exceptional intelligence who can mime
and clown his way through a Feydeau
farce or act with great stillness and
restraint as he did in Miller’s “Incident
at Vichy.” Conobere specialises in
subtle studies of middle-aged men
ranging from the homosexual Pinky in
Inge’s otherwise execrable play
“Where’s Daddy?” to a meticulously
detailed landlord in Pinter’s “The
Birthday Party.” In this role he gave
a valuable lesson in how to listen. Most
young actors simply don’t know what
to do with their faces when they’re not
delivering lines. But in the Pinter play
Conabere’s reactions were better than
the others’ declamations. Honorable
mentions this year go to John Gregg,
Raymond Westwell, and Paul Karo.
The actresses. Once again no one
performance dominates. I was delighted
with Brigid Lenihan’s part in Albee’s
“A Delicate Balance,” in which she
lurched around, glass in hand, her
mouth like a twist of lemon. Patricia
Kennedy’s lead in the same play was
first class. Sheila Florance’s ramshackle
landlady in “The Birthday Party” was
another exceptional piece of work.
However, overall I’d have to pick out
Monica Maughan for a series of good
performances at the Union and St.
Martin’s. Although usually cast in
minor parts, she knows how to put
some emotional meat on the bones of
her lines.
It’s easy to choose 1967’s producer.
George Ogilvie is a clear winner for
succeeding so brilliantly with “Flea in
Her Ear” and “The Heiress,” and fail-
ing so honorably with “A Servant
of Two Masters.” Ogilvie is the one
producer in Melbourne who seems cap-
able of producing something approach-
ing ensemble playing in the inadequate
rehearsal time available to a rep. com-
pany. As well, he has a rare talent ior
organising meaningful stage movement
and seems to understand what his
plays are about.
John Sumner’s “A Delicate Balance”
and “The Right Honourable Gentle-
man” were notable, but he lost a lot of
marks for his work on “Moby Dick
Rehearsed.” Sumner loaded the pro-
duction with so many hack sea-shanties
that the play became a sort of “Sing-
along with Ahab.” And he almost
drowned the audience in unnecessary
lighting and sound effects.
Jim Sharman came to Melbourne to
confound the sceptics (including me)
with his work at St. Martin’s, and an
unknown called John Ellis impressed
with a remarkable, confident student
production of Brecht’s epic parable
“Mother Courage and Her Children.”
The best production of the year was
“The Heiress.” Reading the play made
it seem, at best, an interesting antique.
But in Ogilvie’s hands it proved to be a
remarkably vital and absorbing piece of
theatre.
However, the most important plays
were Albee’s “A Delicate Balance,” in
which contemporary concepts of friend-
ship and family were ingeniously under-
mined, and Jack Hibberd’s “White with
Wire Wheels.” Hibberd is a young local
writer whose play was a corrosive study
of the sexual drives, ambitions, and
dubious priorities of a group of those
glorified office boys known as “junior
executives.” A very dirty, funny, and
accurate piece of writing, despite a few
lapses into over-written fantasy, it seems
to me the best local play since “The
One Day of the Year.” And it simply
must receive a professional production.
The Union Rep’s Kristian Fredrikson
and Richard Prins set the standards in
set and costume designs, although Paul
Kathner’s work for St. Martin’s is im-
proving. The best set by a narrow
margin was Fredrikson’s massive
interior for “The Heiress,” and the
best costumes came from Richard Prins
(with a little help from Tenniel) for
“Rhinoceros.” A young man called
Elijah Moshinsky gets an honorable
mention for his design work in “Mother
Courage.” His costumes, created out of
disposal-store and op-shop gleanings,
were ingenious and compelling.
There were many contenders for the
Wooden Tosca the award for the
worst play of the year. “The Devils
Advocate,” “The Platinum Cat,” “All
in the Family,” “Where’s Daddy?” and
“Life Is for the Living” were notable
among them. But, having won extra
points for outstanding pretentiousness
and intensely purple prose, Morris West
scraped home.
The year saw many prominent play-
wrights all thumbs. Miller’s “Incident
at Vichy” was well constructed but
insufficiently original to redeem the
debacle of “After the Fall.” Admit-
tedly, “Death of a Salesman” stood up
to time’s ravages, although it did
reveal a very prissy attitude to sex in
general and women in particular.
Anouilh seemed to have gone broody
in the writing of “Fighting Cock,” and
lonesco’s “Rhinoceros” was rheumatic
in revival. On the other hand, the
bitterness in “Rules of the Game” and
“The Man” retained its bite for
Pirandello’s centenary.
Nineteen sixty-seven was the year
that Emerald Hill went under the
hammer and St. Martin’s Theatre
made some brave moves toward win-
ning a new sort of audience. Who
would have expected to see Schisgal,
Williams, Pinter, and Sharman pro-
grammed in rapid succession? So
while we’ve lost an important theatre
in South Melbourne we seem to have
gained one in South Yarra. A special
Tosca with oak leaf cluster to this
company for being the most re-
vitalised theatre of 1967. Having been
so surly with them in the past, it’s the
least I can do.
Adelaide theatre, 1967
Plays pleasant,
plays endured
By ROBERT WARD
SHUFFLING through the year’s col-
lection of Adelaide programs was a sad
little task. They were tattered remind-
ers of plays pleasant and plays endured,
ranging from serious theatre through
musicals to tarty revues. On the sur-
face, the number might be seen as
healthy, yet only 20 or so productions
can be remembered as entirely accom-
plished and satisfying.
John Tasker’s productions of Albee’s
“A Delicate Balance” and Pinter’s
“The Homecoming” for the South
Australian Theatre Company, and John
Dick’s production of Joe Orton’s
“Entertaining Mr. Sloane” for the
Sheridan Theatre, were outstanding,
even brilliant excellently acted, pre-
cisely set, and intelligently interpreted.
Then there were Wayne Anthony’s
production of Goldoni’s “The Servant
of Two Masters” for the University
Theatre Guild, and Jean Marshall’s
production of Murray Schisgal’s “Luv”
for the Sheridan Theatre. While these
lacked the professionalism of the
Tasker and Dick productions, they dis-


Patricia Leehy (Ann Rush), Ross Thompson (Phelim Halloran), Donald Mac-
donald (Robert Hearn), James Condon (Terry Byrne), and Brian James (Mr.
Blythe) in “Halloran's Little Boat” at the Independent, Sydney. St. Martin’s
Theatre, Melbourne, is also doing a production of this play by Thomas Keneally;
this production will go on to the Festival of Perth
played in contrasting ways, gusty
comic panache, effective design, and
casts which acted with confidence and
a high level of competence.
This short list may be considered
extreme by those who remember, for
instance, Wal Cherry’s striking, func-
tional production of Brecht’s “Galileo”
or Colin Ballantyne’s light-handed and
caricaturing production of Durrenmatt’s
“Romulus.” But the point is that, while
many plays presented this year were
interesting as literature, few achieved
first-rate, internally consistent, exter-
nally precise standards of acting and
design.
With companies and groups, Theatre
62’s “The Merchant of Venice,” “Julius
Caesar,” and “King Lear” were im-
portant if only because we generally
suffer from a lack of classic theatre.
They were rather large and untidy
productions, and the casts did amaz-
ingly ungainly things with the verse.
The poetry was the pity, and so while
one admired the effort one deplored
the patent lack of knowledgeable direc-
tion.
The Sheridan Theatre remains
Adelaide’s most important company.
Over the years it has developed a quite
distinctive style and a fine group of
actors. If its productions could be
faulted generally, it is in the area of
design.
1 , The Sheridan despei'ately needs a
designer who is capable of mastering
the problems of their small, intimate
theatre. Sitting so close to the stage,
audiences see everything. The overall
effect, the individual details, the cut
of the costumes, and the very con-
struction of sets and props should be
near perfect.
Summing up, the year has not been
kind to the dwindling audience. Pro-
duction standards are down, theatres
remain cold, uncomfortable, and hard
to find, and the exodus of players to
the eastern States and television con-
tinues, with a consequent loss all round.
The new year, Festival notwithstanding,
looks bleak.
The formidable Mrs. Blythe (Aileen
Britton) menaces her husband, played
by Brian James
Films
Bunuel's "Belle"
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
Belle de Jour. Director, Luis Bunuel.
LUIS BUNUEL has said that “Belle
de Jour” will be his last film. If this
is true we’ve all learnt to distrust
these “positively last appearance” signs
it’s a fine one to finish with. It
shows no softening in his attitude to-
ward life, and most certainly no wan-
ing of his powers as a director.
Bunuel has always looked on
humanity with cynical pessimism, yet
without bitterness or condescension; he
shows people behaving badly, but does
not condemn or thank God that he
is not as other men are. It is his
acceptance of his low view of the
world that makes his world acceptable.
People are dreadful, he seems to be say-
ing, but they’re the only people in
town. We cannot sit in judgment, be-
cause we, too, are part of the prisoner
at the bar; we can, however, observe
them.
It is this attitude which gives “Belle
de Jour” a feeling of serenity and even
a strange poetry to what on the sur-
face sounds like a prurient excursion
into abnormal psychology. Without
going as far as some overseas critics
who have attributed “purity” to it, I
feel that Bunuel’s total lack of moral
criticism removes any offensiveness.
Severine is a beautiful, wealthy
woman married apparently success-
fully to a young doctor. But her mental
life is filled with dreams of erotic
violence, and finally she takes a day-
time job in a house of assignation,
where she becomes a great success with
“the rough trade.” Severine is now ful-
filled, and her life with her husband
becomes contented. Unfortunately, this
ideal arrangement cannot last, and
Severine’s very logical adjustment to
life involves her husband in violence
and tragedy. But even this cannot dis-
turb Severine’s dream; pitied by the
world as a tragic young wife, she sinks
with deeper luxury into her fantasies.
The film is beautifully photographed
in color, and the camerawork has a
fluency which often, and quite deliber-
ately, makes it difficult to tell where
fact ends and fantasy begins. The cast-
ing and performances are fine;
Catherine Deneuve is beautiful and
projects exactly the remote, cloudy
personality of a woman whose most
intense life is experienced away from
reality. I’m not sure whether this is
brilliant acting on her part or merely
the way she is, but it’s highly effective
here. Genevieve Page gives a memor-
able performance as the manageress of
the brothel; one couldn’t be so crude
as to call her Madam.
To some filmgoers, Bunuel’s view-
point is utterly distasteful cynical,
anti-religious, violently anti-clerical.
But he is not only a brilliant film-
maker but an extremely entertaining
one; and this cool, unemotional pes-
simism makes a rather pleasing con-
trast to the general gaiety and optimism
of holiday movies.
Art
Good forgeries
lately
By ELWYN LYNN
WHEN THE ADMINISTRATIVE
vice-director of the Metropolitan,
Joseph Noble, revealed the inside story
of the fake “fifth-century 8.C.” bronze
horse in December, he said, “stylistic-
ally the horse was and still is
marvellous”; and the Director, almost
unprecedentedly, has put it on display,


PA
NET
NO FIXED
TERM
Don’t give your savings a
life sentence.
NO FIXED TERM means your
investment, plus dividend,
is readily available for
withdrawal. You earn a
handsome 6% p.a. net (current
rate). There are no deductions.
Your dividend is paid twice
yearly. Your security is backed
by $3l million assets. It’s good
conduct to write for brochure.
BUILD
FUND
P^UMHD
.'«*o.ooo
Funds guaranteed for withdrawal
up to $lO,OOO per investor.
The progressive building society
ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward—General Manager
HEIAti OFFICE: 36/38 Ormonde Parade,
Hurstville. Ph 57 0201. CITY OFFICE: 82
Elizabeth Street. Phone 28 2801. MIRANDA
OFFICE: 551 The Kingsway. Phone
524 6466. PARRAMATTA OFFICE: 167
Macquarie Street. Phone 635 4574.
CHATSWOOD OFFICE: 39 Spring Street.
Phone 41 3570. BONDI JUNCTION OFFICE:
450 Oxford Street. Phone 38 3196.
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office
Please send free, comprehensive liter-
ature to:
NAME
ADDRESS
BY 483
no doubt with a notice that it’s a fake
to avert one’s aesthetic pleasure from
treating it as genuine.
There lies the problem: if a forgery
is aesthetically valid how can it lose
its aesthetic qualities when it has been
declared a fake? What, has asked
Alfred Lessing in “The Journal of
Aesthetics and Art Criticism,” is wrong
with a forgery? Aesthetically, nothing
at all. Considering a work of art
aesthetically inferior because it is a
forgery has little or nothing to do with
aesthetic judgment or criticism.
Indeed, he thinks that Koestler is cor-
rect in saying that those repelled
aesthetically by a forgery are snobs,
especially, one might add, if repro-
ductions of art works, the repetition
of Thai casts and carvings, the “same-
ness” of Eastern art, and the exact
facsimiles achieved in thousands of
repeats by modern silkscreen pro-
cesses do not distress them.
If Koestler is right, art-snobs abound
in Australia: James Gleeson thinks that
deception prevents us fr,pm apprecia-
ting what we once admired and that
we must see a work in its historical
context before we make up our minds
about it. (Contradictorily, he agrees
with Hume that nothing is absolutely
beautiful.) Patrick McCaughey objects
to forgery as providing false evidence
in art history, and Laurie Thomas
thinks the previous attractiveness of a
disclosed forgery is immediately dis-
persed; Dr. Ursula Hoff has been
quoted as saying that aesthetic judg-
ment and historical knowledge are
“absolutely interlocked.” Lessing, him-
self, comes down on the historical side,
asserting that the great artist is the
great stylistic innovator.
.Let’s have a closer look at the
issues: snobbery is pretty well
incurable, so no more of that; con-
noisseurs and critics are always
embarrassed by having been taken in
and usually approve of the destruction
of a forgery. Critics, instead of casting
out what misled them, should take
pride in having praised a work of
beauty even if it is not authentic. But
should a forgery be destroyed? The
law in Holland, under which the
greatest forger, Van Meegeren, was
prosecuted, permits works to be
destroyed: the Dobell forgery at the
N.S.W. Gallery was destroyed; people,
like the director of Harvard’s Fogg,
think forgeries should be locked away
for students. Some experts think Van
Meegeren’s fake Vermeer Disciples at
Emmaus a beautiful work worth pre-
serving; a few think that it was a
genuine discovery by the forger, who
got his final revenge by declaring it
his own work.
What happens when a critic dismisses
a show as aesthetically pointless? He
certainly doesn’t imply that it is morally
wrong to see it; in fact, the suggestion
is usually there that one can indirectly
benefit by the examination of inferior
works of art, yet people find something
morally repugnant in a forgery however
aesthetically attractive it is. Surely this
is unreasonable?
Can there really be the complete for-
gery? Forgeries fall roughly into two
kinds: replicas and composite paintings
(like Van Meegeren’s Emmaus ), both
of which have deceived experts. Though
there have often been dissentients, many
forgeries have passed undisputed and
there must be plenty about waiting to
be aesthetically defrocked; yet Malraux
suggests that the forger widens the
appeal of his work, as he says Van
Meegeren did with the Emmaus, by
subtly modernising it so that it fits pre-
vailing visual conventions and only in a
generation or two do its stylistic incon-
gruities become noticeable. I’m being
wise after the event, but the Met’s
horse, bought in 1923, seems to me to
fit the classical constructivist ideology
of the ’twenties and ’thirties, and since
then interest has concentrated on
archaeological and archaic Greece: in
brief the horse looked less attractive
in the ’sixties, and the tell-tale ridges
and the weight indicated processes
unknown to the Greeks were as evi-
dent in 1923 as in 1967.
One hasn’t much patience with the
notion that forgeries upset art history
and lead to misinterpretations of an
artist’s work or his period: part of art
history’s job is to detect the forgery,
to separate the master from the appren-
tice, to account for the atypical, and
to avoid proving that an artist didn’t do
his bad works. The deception is repug-
nant, but the solution is not to declare
that historical values are more im-
portant than aesthetic ones. Historical
studies can sharpen awareness of
aesthetic qualities and purposes, but
often enough historical canons are
treated as though they are aesthetic
criteria. Bad taste has a history as much
as art’s most exalted themes.
Lessing argues that Van Meegeren
merely paid homage to a great innova-
tor (which is, he says, what a great
artist is), but was not therefore a great
artist himself. This is plausible enough
if one is dealing with a great innovator
of the past, but what of a forger who
shares Picasso’s “environment” and
forges a not-particularly innovatory
work by Picasso. Lessing’s historical test
of genuine innovator would not apply.
In fact, many beautiful objects are not
artistic innovations. What is one to say
of the many forgeries of a minor artist
like Utrillo? Wraight in “The Art
Game” tells the story of Madame
Utrillo pausing irresolutely as she flung
fake Utrillos on the fire. Were they
fakes? They looked so nice to her, but
there was the market to consider, so
they burnt; yet I’ll bet some were
superior to some genuine Utrillos.
It seems clear enough that one can’t
love without pangs of conscience both
the Muse of History and of Beauty; no
historical test can solve aesthetic prob-
lems and if now you look suspiciously
at what is on the wall, remember an
old song: “For all thy faults, we love
thee still, Aesthetics rules the waves.”


BOOKS
A biochemical treatment for
Original Sin
The Ghost in the Machine. Arthur
Koestler. Hutchinson. $5.30.
KOESTLER’S MORE RECENT work
is very _ demanding. It requires some
knowledge, at least, of experimental
psychology, the philosophy of science,
and lots of Old Koestler; that is, politics
as one has learnt it from his early
masterpieces. The present book tackles
two different topics which do not
necessarily connect, though they seem
to be firmly linked in Koestler’s mind.
The first topic is a continuation of
Koestler’s attack on mechanism in the
biological and social sciences launched
in his earlier “Act of Creation.” The
other is a restatement, in the neuro-
physiological manner, of the doctrine
of the. Fall.
Koestler’s philosophical bete noire is
a notion most succinctly summed up in
Karel Capek’s play “R.U.R.” Explain-
ing the nature of robots, their designer
says: “Inside they’re quite simple.”
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Koestler’s assaults on behaviourism and
related mechanistic heresies issue in a
plea for recognition of complexity,
indeterminacy, . purposiveness, and
open-endedness in nature. Galaxies,
men, kidneys, motor-habits, and atoms
are' not “individuals” (i.e., indivisibles)
or aggregates of some “ultimate”
individuals or irreducibly “simple”
parts, as the mechanists claimed, nor
are they “irreducible w r holes,” as the
holists and gestalt psychologists main-
tained. They are, in fact, neither and
both. Each thing has properties of being
a whole, an organised composite of
parts, as well as being a part itself
in a hierarchically superordinate whole.
Entities are “Janus-faced” wholes
and parts in one. The term coined by
Koestler for this concept, is holon.
Koestler’s universe is a hierarchical,
transfinite, ever-evolving holon part
ghost, part beast, but never quite a
machine.
Koestler’s theory of Original Sin
(for this is what it amounts to) is
based on the well-known fact that the
human brain encompasses within itself
two earlier and fairly autonomous sys-
tems of integration, corresponding
roughly to the reptilian and low-
mammalian brains. The older system
of integration called the “limbic”
system” is more or less alike in
all mammals, including man, and it
is tied much more closely and inti-
mately with our visceral functions
and “emotions” than the. “Johnny-
come-lately” human neo-cortex, the
“seat” of our higher cognitive processes.
It also seems that “our” brain is sub-
jected to gross interferences from the
horse-cum-crocodile brain within us,
without being able to control “them.”
There seems to be a defect in co-
ordination between the limbic system
and the human neo-cortex, between
Man and Beast. Reason is the slave of
the passions, or, as Freud put it, “the
ego derives its energy from the id.”
But Koestler holds that the com-
bination may be fatal and man biologi-
cally non-viable. Our immensely power-
ful brain, at the mercy of interferences
and directives from reptile and horse,
may be a “freak” or “error” of evolu-
tion which dooms us to extinction un-
less psycho-pharmacologists and bio-
chemists can think of a drug which
would “correct” the faulty link between
our higher and lower brain-centres,
thereby curing us from our universal
organic phychosis. The long and sordid
history of paranoia and intractable
irrationality in human affairs is
due to the fact that we are a
cursed species of neurological cen-
taurs. And the cortex which cannot
control the beast has now supplied it
with nuclear weapons. Koestler holds
that man is a biological miscreant who
must pull himself up by his own corti-
cal bootstraps or perish. The human
brain must conquer the brain of the
horse and the crocodile with the aid
of biochemistry, which it invented, by
a kind of redemptive positive feedback.
John Strachey once wrote, referring
explicitly to Koestler, that ex-Com-
munists tend to turn into mystics, re-
actionaries, and celebrants of the
irrational. The present book disproves
this charge utterly, since it shows that
Koestler’s scientific rationalism with
which he started his ideological pil-
grimage as a young Communist has
remained quite unimpaired by his
struggle with the god that failed. In-
stead of sending us to Church to take
the sacraments, he sends us to the
Chemist to take a pill which would
make us all more sensible. His message
is quite unambiguous: if science cannot
correct the basic flaw in our make-up,
nothing can. There is no Santa Claus.
There is no salvation outside science.
There is no substitute for intelligence.
Koestler’s pill is neither narcotic nor
ataraxic but ascetic. Its action would
be contrary to hallucinogenic drugs. It
is a hallucinocide. It would establish
the rule of reason over the passions and
turn paranoid centaurs into men who
know and rule themselves. It is, there-
fore, probable that it would meet with
the approval of Catholics (who are
keen ascetics and who tend to mis-
Arthur Koestler ... scientific rational-
ism unimpaired by the god that failed
understand the deeper implications of
their creed), unlike that other pill
which they discuss so much with dis-
approval and which is, in fact, no
threat to Him at all, since it merely
gives a little more rope to the horse
and to the crocodile in a contest whose
outcome is deemed to be preordained.
Koestlers’ pill a fruit from the tree
of life —is the real threat, since with
it men could chain the Beast and draw
its teeth, thereby making His work re-
dundant. The Old Adam may yet
defeat the serpent without assistance
from the New.


The computerised Olympiad
“The Games.” Hugh Atkinson. Cassel.
$4.35.
THE IDEA OF A NOVEL about the
Olympic Games would seem a logical
development of the behind-the-scenes
best-seller craze which reached its peak
in “The Prize” and “The Oscar.” Yet,
if we are to believe the stories which
have circulated through the book trade
for the past year or two, it took a com-
puter to suggest it to Cassels. After con-
sidering all the elements of successful
best-sellers as well as a selection of
possible subjects, the machine fixed on
the Olympic Games, and Australian
Hugh Atkinson was handed the job of
producing a hit novel from this
pre-endorsed idea. Unfortunately, the
recipient of the honor has proved un-
equal to the task entrusted to him.
Despite occasional qualities, “The
Hugh Atkinson ... other-directed
Games” seems a doubtful candidate for
best-sellerdom; the real money-maker
from this gilt-edged subject has yet to
be written.
Whether or not the computer story
is true, Atkinson’s approach to the book
was workmanlike enough. Ensconced in
his Majorca home, he commanded a
team of research assistants combing the
world for data and dirt, while frequent
bulletins from the London editor kept
him advised of the newest commercial
necessities. With such a machine at
his disposal, it seems unlikely that
Atkinson could fail to produce a
financial success, however much we may
have doubted that he could also make
it a work of art. Yet “The Games” fails
precisely because it is an attempt at
art. Obviously a writer of talent, Atkin-
son has tried very hard indeed to make
this book a true and moving reflection
of human endeavor, not realising that
the last thing readers want in this sort
of book is literary quality. The com-
puter was right, but human error in
choosing Atkinson has brought the
project to naught.
Everything in the book hints at a
conflict between craftsman and artist.
Atkinson originally wanted the book to
be called “See How They Run,” a re-
flection of its primary purpose, to show
the mental and physical stresses under-
gone by three men preparing to run
in the Olympic marathon. Counter-
pointed against this he has drawn the
frantic activity of an American diplo-
matic mission swindling the Olympic
committee into holding the Games in a
banana fepublic hungry for prestige,
the misguided efforts of a warped
Olympic chairman to keep the Games
“pure,” as well as the frenzied efforts
of other hangers-on. All are running,
but for what? The theme is one worthy
of a serious writer and a considered
novel, though hopelessly inappropriate
to a best-seller.
If we are to judge “The Games” as
a popular novel, some criticisms are
inescapable. However much one may
admire its structure, the book lacks
that predictable development of plot
which makes Robbins and Wallace
masters of their field. Subtlety in the
service of melodrama is wasted effort;
Atkinson moves far too deviously for
the average reader, jumping time and
location in a way which few can fol-
low with ease. Not too surprisingly the
style echoes this structure, abandoning
the meticulous development of detail
for considered probing into mood and
more psychology.
Perhaps the most damning criticism
to be levelled at “The Games” is that
it tells us little about its subject. Neither
extensive nor detailed enough ade-
quately to cover so huge an event as
the Olympics, it compounds the offence
by attempting to convey with character
analysis a feeling that those few people
studied represent universal types. In
this it fails completely. Atkinson very
skilfully shows the pressures under
which three runners, an Englishman, an
American, and an Australian, labor to
make the Games, but we are never free
of the feeling that only a tiny part of
the picture is shown. No other event,
except the marathon, is mentioned,
except as an aside, no other competitor
referred to in detail, no aspect of
organisation, preparation, or drama
allowed to intrude on the story of these
three athletes. One misses the careful
development of “The Prize,” with its
intricate encapsulation of Nobel Prize
history and competently plotted excur-
sions into the private lives of many
involved. Perhaps Mr. Atkinson despises
the obviousness of this form. The fact
remains, however, that a novel like
“The Games” must use it to succeed.
Somewhere in “The Games” there is
a short, neat novel struggling to get out.
One feels that the writer was tempted
often along the way to dwell at greater
length on specific characters whose
complexity seemed to offer promise of
more development but that the neces-
sities of his vast canvas prevented him
from doing so. There is a sinister,
almost Lawrencian mood about Harry
Hayes, the British milkman who is
trained to be a running machine by
his half-mad trainer, and the generalisa-
tions Atkinson makes about their
relationship are intriguing enough to
make one want more. The writing here
is deeply felt. One senses an involve-
ment which is not present elsewhere.
Similarly, his sketch of Kaverly, the
Olympic committee’s purist chairman,
promises a great deal more than is
delivered.
Many of this book’s faults should
perhaps be laid at the feet of the
publishers. Atkinson’s approach is fre-
quently compromised by the inclusion
of characters who, if the stories one
hears are true, were inserted at the
direction of London. The writer’s
objection to salting the book with
gratuitous sex was allegedly overruled
by the publishers, and as a result we
have an irrelevant female named Luba
Ivanova, who appears, like the Marquis
de Sade’s syphilitic gardener, whenever
the plot seems to need a touch of the
erotic. Presumably we may also blame
the publishers for the cover, an ill-
designed effort on which appear a
woman’s bedroom slipper and a spiked
running shoe, the odd juxtaposition
hinting at who knows what sexual
eccentricities. Faced with a presentation
like “The Games,” one can only hope
that Mr. Atkinson made enough out of
the book to change both style and
publisher soon enough to salve his well-
earned reputation.
By JOHN BAXTER
Wide plateaus
By MARGARET IRVIN
The Rebel General. Chris Wallace-
Crabbe. Angus & Robertson. $1.95.
IN CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE’S
latest book, certain poems serve as
vantage-points from which the whole
collection can be surveyed, and it is
a wide plateau that stretches away
from the peaks. Such elevations include
the poems “Like Orellana,” “Medita-
tion: The Sleeper,” and “Nature,
Language, The Sea: An Essay.” The
last named presents a sublime pano-
rama which, nevertheless, demonstrates
the chaos of nature:
But nobody can claim it makes good
sense
Or testifies to clarity:
O, the mistakes of a creator!
Nature, language, sea: our great
examples
Of what must always be rebuked
By the modest radiance of art . . . .
Wherein the formal is at last the good.
Both passionate and moral is
Music that has passed into a shape
The poet’s intention is to bring every-
thing that engages him to clarity and


form, and since his talent is both medi-
tative and descriptive it serves his pur-
pose well, whilst his feeling for literary
and historical traditions is a further
support. Chris Wallace-Crabbe has been
called an urban poet, but in this book
he reaches beyond the city in many
poems to move more freely into terri-
tories that are landscapes of the past
and present. His several strengths are
united in the opening lines of “A
Little Night Music”: 1
Night fills the window, and the
shadowline
Glides fluently across the nations of
Eucalypt, cherry and eternal pine,
Investing Asia with a sombre love
As Pope saw dullness flooding all the
West
And conquering with a yawn ....
“Night Song” and “In the Rain
Forest” are both concerned with the
artist’s goals, which, for the poet, are
lucidity, “discrimination and control,”
and “A harvest of coherence to be
mown.” “In the Rain Forest” describes
the way down through the “under-
kingdom” “Where all things by their
nature creep.” Somehow the intensity
of the poem peters out in the last stanza
as if the poet is after too quick a con-
clusion.
The second section, “Brief Lives,”
opens with the excellent poem “The
Apparition,” in which poignancy and
evocation are sustained from start to
finish. This section contains poems that
are haunted and haunting, partly in
and partly out of time, and, as in “The
Escape,” set in a muted nightmare
where the protagonist says “Snapping
my fingers at the gulfs of space/I
grasped all chaos as a simple fact.”
The poet’s vision is also focused on
larger-than-life characters The Rebel
General, Prometheus and Christ,
Rustum, King David. In his medita-
tions, Chris Wallace-Crabbe has long
since found that man is nothing with-
out rebellion and conflict. This is car-
ried into the last section, “Colony,”
which is unfortunately flat in parts, but
when the poet says in an earlier poem:
I shiver a little at the fine machinery
Of history, engineering, what you will
That air-conditions every day
And holds the sweating past away:
What nameless planes are stooping for
the kill?
It is this awareness of the past, and
the future repeating the past, that gives
the poetry its tensions and tensilities.
An explosive self-analysis
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Leavetaking and Vanishing Point. Peter
Weiss. Calder & Boyars. $5.30.
WHEN PETER WEISS’ play “The
Persecution and Assassination of Jean-
Paul Marat as Performed by the
Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton
under the Direction of the Marquis de
Sade” burst across the stage of the
august Berlin Schiller Theatre and
overflowed into a stunned and flab-
bergasted audience, the many inter-
national experts present agreed that
after this the theatre would never ever
be quite the same again. (These in-
cluded Peter Brook and Ingmar Berg-
man, who secured the first London and
Stockholm performances respectively.)
Weiss’ impact was compared quite
seriously with anything from Shake-
speare’s to Berthold Brecht’s. Over-
night, this virtually unknown play-
wright had become one of the most
important names in contemporary
drama.
No doubt for want of a better defi-
nition, “Leavetaking” and “Vanishing
Point” are inadequately dubbed two
autobiographical novels, yet they are
neither novelistic in style nor do they
deal with the sort of facts normally
understood as biographical. “Leave-
taking” consists of one long para-
graph; this is not a gimmick, that is
exactly what it is, and any division
would be an artificial gesture to con-
vention. Together the two pieces form
the irrational confessional outpourings,
quite unchronologically related, of a
true child of our times (cut adrift
from nationality, race, and language)
an d t^e S pj r it ua l odyssey of an artist in
tortuous search of himself.
For Weiss the awakening, recognition,
anc j re velation was particularly slow
an d an g U i s hed. It was not until he was
over 40 that he at last found his true
vocation. Until then he had supposed he
was a p a i n t e r, but despite quite passably
successful exhibitions he remained unful-
filled and his frustrations grew,
Probably the biggest single obstacle
he had to overcome was his early separa-
tion f rom his mother-tongue. It was only
a f ter he had achieved a feeling of be-
longing nowhere and everywhere a
type of world-citizenship—that he could
return to his native German as a means
0 f expression. His middle-class family
had been forced to migrate to Sweden
when the Nazis discovered a Jewish
grandparent. This personal data is never
told straight; it is squeezed out pain-
fully between the lines. Weiss is equally
frank about his other major barrier to
maturity—a complex Freudian tangle
due to the odd attitude of his strange
puritanical mother,
Magnificently written (and translated
by Christopher Levenson), this volume
is an astonishing piece of honest, critical
self-analysis, free of both maudlin breast-
beating for lost opportunities and of
congratulatory trumpet-blowing at ulti-
mate victory. It is easy to trace how all
these confused introvert psychological
experiences found a sudden extrovert
explosion in the “Marat/Sade” master-
piece. For Weiss, these two figures are
symbolic: the former stands for politi-
cal, the latter for individual, freedom.
The madhouse in which inmate de Sade
did, in fact, produce plays (but not this
one) during the last part of his life is
the excuse for complete, uninhibited
abandonment on stage jugglers, nuns,
nurses, acrobats, priests, musicians, and
Charlotte Corday, whistles and cat-calls,
interruptions and strait-jackets, whips
and cold-water cures, revolutions, and
censors add to the chaos until the whole
thing bursts at the seams and the actors
invade the auditorium.
I imagine the censors here, Down
Under, will effectively protect our own
supposedly still adolescent sensitivities
from possible perversion from exposure
to this scandalous romp. Meanwhile,
this book may help somewhat to fill
the dramatic void.
Apartheid's Moses
By DAVID McGILL
Verwoerd. Alexander Hepple. Penguin
Books. $l.OO.
HENDRIK VERWOERD spread the
gospel of apartheid with the uncom-
promising conviction of the Apostle
Paul. He would have approved the com-
parison, for he was also a convert and
also believed he had a God-given mis-
sion; however, his personal brand of
puritan Christianity may have preferred
an Old Testament analogy, like Moses
leading his people into the Promised
Land. The author of this political biog-
raphy agrees with the general opinion
that Verwoerd led three-quarters of the
people into the Promised Land in chains.
Perhaps because he is an ex-leader of
the Labor Party in the South African
Parliament, he has determinedly written
an impartial account of Dr. Verwoerd’s
single-minded establishment of the
Republic,, of South Africa.
The Messianic qualities of Verwoerd
force their way through the undramatic
prose, and it is fascinating to see the
man in action. He is the brilliant immi-
grant student becoming committed to
the Afrikaner cause and being influ-
enced by Fascism, the professor synthe-
sising and euphemising apartheid, then
carrying it into practice as Broeder-
bonder, editor, and politician. A man
of remarkable energy, skill, and confi-
dence, he is seen mesmerising his
audience and himself with prolix
smokescreens of words through which
filters the message of white supremacy
and disciplined cheap black labor.
This book is one of a Pelican series
which aims to show “the real man lurk-
ing behind the personality cults of great
contemporary statesmen,” such as Mao
Tse Tung, de Gaulle, and Lyndon John-
son. This book establishes that Verwoerd
really was what he appeared to be.


LETTERS
Running Australia by the
seat of our pants
As a recently arrived Economics
graduate from England, I was glad to
read your article '‘Running Australia
by the seat of our pants.” I was be-
ginning to feel that I was one of the
only people in the Public Service to
believe in the necessity for Economics
graduates. There is, however, a great
danger in prospect. The unions repre-
senting Public Service personnel are
hoping to have classified all persons who
are often but vaguely concerned with
economics or statistics as “economists”
or “statisticians,” irrespective of whether
they have degrees or not. I can think
of no more effective way of devaluing
the degree.
Barry Hesketh
Canberra, A.C.T.
Peter Samuel (“Running Australia by
the seat of our pants,” 8., Dec. 9), in his
attempt to justify his conclusion, makes
the economic policy formulation
centres appear like a convention of
clowns. The many hard-working and
efficient officers who staff these
agencies and departments do not de-
serve this kind of rubbish heaped on
them. Nevertheless, I would agree that
the increasing complexity of our
economy necessitates a more profes-
sional approach to the problem solv-
ing. But is he confusing the quality of
the advice given with the perspicacity
of those who make the decisions on
that advice and who terms of
reference for the advisers?
Secondly, Mr. Samuel complains of
the shortage of professional economists
in Government. In my opinion, there
appear to be three main reasons for
this: 1. Recent graduates, in their
early years as research officers, are
generally permitted only to work on
the periphery of the major projects be-
ing undertaken; 2.' The economics
degree is still considered by many to
be a generalist qualification rather
than an apprenticeship for an increas-
ingly specialised profession; 3. This
country lacks a centre of attraction
for young graduates in economics who
wish to pursue their profession and
advance their knowledge for a few
years until they obtain permanent em-
ployment as economists in Government,
industry, or commerce.
Thirdly, Mr. Samuel complains of
the desuetude of the profession. How-
ever, any worthwhile research project
these days (and particularly one in-
volving field work) requires the expen-
diture of considerable time and money.
Too often, budgets for research work
send Government auditors bug-eyed and
reaching for red pencils. The same
applies to universities. In fact, only a
very few private firms and semi-official
institutions have the forethought to
realise that sound economic research
(or, in fact, any worthwhile contri-
bution to economic science) cannot be
accomplished sitting Buddha-like at a
desk, Year Book in hand, contemplating
one’s navel.
It has been said that good economists
“Whilst affecting the serious and re-
served air of students, have all the time
been found brawling in the market-
place.”
I. T. De Mellow
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Britannica Award
The Bulletin (Dec. 23) scarcely does
justice to the Council of the Britannica
Awards which declined to give $lO,OOO
to the English resident who was the
choice of the Literary Committee. The
Award is supposed to be for “services
to Australian literature” and the com-
mittee chose to interpret this as apply-
ing to writers of a certain genre only.
But whether the Award is given for
a single book (which it is not sup-
posed to be) or for writing over a
long period of years, there are poets
such as Douglas Stewart and Rosemary
Dobson, novelists such as Katharine
Susannah Prichard and Kylie Tennant,
editors such as C. B. Christeson, of
“Meanjin,” whose contributions are
much greater than the author of a
couple of Australian novels of 30 years
ago and the recent “Cotter’s England,”,
which was described in the review
journal, of which one of the committee
was an editor, as “an embarrassing
travesty of English literature, where the
corn is as high as Rodgers and Ham-
merstein’s elephant’s eye, and which is
tedious to boot.”
It would be in the interests of Aus-
tralian writers if the Literary Commit-
tee accepted the rebuff as a tip to
resign.
F. L. Farrar
Killara, N.S.W.
Wines of Australia
As one who occasionally buys a bottle
of nine, I was interested by the passion
with which Harry Cox defends his new
book, “The Wines of Australia,” re-
viewed by Cellarmaster (8., Nov. 11).
Cellarmaster with his characteristic
gusto (strange, a pen so blunt with a
nose so sharp) soundly attacks Mr.
Cox for errors of fact.
In his review, Cellarmaster pointed
out that Kirkton Chablis is no longter
a Hunter wine. Mr. Cox replies that
he did not say it was and points to
the text on pages 28 and 6 for support.
That’s true, but he must have forgotten
all about page 51, on which he wrote:
“Lindeman’s Kirkton Chablis and Ben
Fan Moselle are among the best-known
and best-liked of the Hunter River’s
light wines.”
Then there’s the heresy over what-
ever happened to Maurice O’Shea’s
vats. Mr. Cox claims (page 41): “They
(McWilliam’s) have built at the vine-
yard a modern winery of stainless-steel
and concrete vats, but they have also
put into the new building the old
•wooden vats that Maurice O’Shea used
to make his famous red wines, mainly
Hermitage.” Perhaps Mr. Cox didn’t
mean vats, but casks, or something else,
because the history and fact of the
O’Shea legend (which one hears so
tirelessly and sometimes tiresomely) is
that he made his wine in concrete vats.
I saw them recently abandoned and
outside the winery.
And just one other point. Mr. Cox,
in replying to Cellarmaster’s claim that
Hardy’s St. Thomas Burgundy is “no
longer full-bodied,” quotes Hardy’s own
publicity that it is “a full-bodied smooth
wine.” In this case, Hardy’s are
obviously right. After all, they make the
wine.
John Power
Lind field, N.S.W.
The "Messiah"
In his critical notice of the rendition
of Handel’s “Messiah” by the Hurl-
stone Choir (8., Dec. 23), Paul
Frolich tells us of musicians going “to
much trouble to discover the methods
of performance used in Handel’s own
day” and sloughing off “a thick layer
of Victorian accretions.”
By all means encourage students to
pursue their lines of interest in histori-
cal research; but let us have Handel’s
immortal work interpreted to our own
generation in our generation’s idiom.
How the oratorio was performed in
1742 is purely a matter of antiquarian
interest.
Harold. W. Denning
Randwick, N.S.W.
The Inside Story
In The Bulletin of December 16 is a
featured article by Charles Higham
(“The Inside Story lns and Outs of
Interior Decorators”) which is a sneer-
ing send-up of Sydney decorators, im-
plying slick salesmanship and even
fraudulent conduct. Mr. Higham claims
to give “the inside story,” to know
exactly how people become decorators
“You need no special training or
qualifications to become a decorator.”
This must be discouraging information
for any student already committed to
a full-time course in interior decoration!
Although Mr. Higham has taken the
time of a number of busy people, he
has overlooked several important facts,
the first being that keeping a shop or
boutique is only a small part of a true
decorator’s practice. To be successful,
in fact, to keep in business at all, he
must, besides the many aesthetic con-
siderations, understand and be able to
deal with a great variety of skilled
trades and maintain the interest and
respect of tradesmen. This reporter


speaks of interior decoration as if it is
simply a matter of selling things over
a counter. Nor does he appear to know
that some interior decorators do not
have shops, do no merchandising, but
work in a purely professional capacity.
For 25 years I was fully engaged as
a consultant decorator in Sydney,
working with architects and private
clients. Apart from planning and de-
signing, I had to guide and assist my
clients in the purchase of furniture,
furnishings, and accessories. During a
long association with the businesses
which supply these things, decorators’
shops, department stores, etc., I have
never encountered the slick salesman-
ship, fraudulent practices, “tricks of
the trade” your reporter describes, such
as borrowing samples in Stockholm and
flying to Japan or Hong Kong to have
thousands of yards run off cheaply,
attaching foreign labels to locally made
goods to give them more prestige! It
would be interesting to know where
this reporter got some of his informa-
tion.
Margaret Lord
Potts Point, N.S.W.
Believing that the publication of a
thoughtful article on Interior Design
in Australia was not only timely, but
essential, I agreed, together with other
members of my profession, to give an
interview to a member of the staff of
The Bulletin.
Having spent nearly an hour dis-
cussing training and its importance,
ethics, and design generally, none of
which was mentioned, I regret that
my name and the names of respected
colleagues were connected with such
a vicious distortion of the truth,
appearing in your article, “The Inside
Story” (8., Dec. 16).
Mary White,
Past President, Society of
Interior Designers of Australia
Edge cliff, N.S.W.
Adelaide Festival
I am concerned about Brian Buckley’s
statement (8., Dec. 9): “George Far-
quhar’s late Restoration comedy ‘The
Recruiting Officer’ and Gogol’s ‘The
Inspector General’ are also likely to
draw large, though uncomfortable,
houses.”
These plays are to be presented in
the University Union Hall, which is
one of the best equipped and appointed
theatres of its size in the Southern
Hemisphere. It is air-conditioned, the
auditorium is raked, and all seats are
staggered. It is irresponsible to confuse
the Union Hall with some other
Festival venues, which have been criti-
cised in the past as being uncom-
fortable.
Peter W. Miles,
President, the Adelaide
University Theatre Guild
Adelaide, SM.
MARION RAYMOND’S
COOKBOOK
Leaving bought
ice-cream out
in the cold
SOMEWHERE in the South of France
(I’ve long since forgotten where) there
once lived an elderly lady who sold
“ices.” Her small shop was open only
for a few months during the year, when
fresh berry fruits were at their best.
For years visitors tried to persuade her
to stay open longer, but she steadfastly
refused. She would sell her cremes only
when the fruit was fresh and ripe, and
no one could persuade her to use
canned or preserved fruit.
Like the old lady, you, too, can make
a most delicious but uncomplicated
creme ice now that soft fruits are in
season. It is so simple you cannot fail.
Use, for example, two punnets of
strawberries the small ones, if pos-
sible, as they have more flavor for this
kind of caper. Thoroughly mash them
with a fork, add sugar to taste and a
dash of cognac, and allow to aromatise
for a while. Then whip half a pint of
thick cream, mix with the strawberries,
pour into the trays of the refrigerator,
and freeze for an hour.
Raspberries and many other soft
fruits serve just as well (fresh or frozen,
but NOT the canned varieties). Don’t,
however, be tempted to make this type
of creme ice too far in advance. Small
daggers of ice form when it is left too
long in the freezer, spoiling a
thoroughly delectable dessert. (It can
be salvaged if you have really for-
gotten about it by rewhipping and
briefly refreezing—but it is far better
to remember to take it out and eat it
at its peak.)
Nowadays one can buy, of course,
an infinite variety of ice-creams and
gelati. But, in my opinion, all that
modern machinery and industrialisation
has done for ices is to complicate the
formula, make us consume even more
synthetics and emulsifying agents, and
turn out ever vaster quantities of a
product that should never cross any-
one’s lips, except at the beach.
But we can all make ices in the
freezing compartments of our refrig-
erators. The secret is not to put the
mixture in the freezer and leave it
until solid; it must be stirred or beaten
at intervals to prevent the formation
of large ice crystals. With a bit of
practice anyone can acquire enough
know-how to make very pleasing ices
of all kinds and they leave the
bought ones cold.
The granita (water ice), like the
mousse type of ice-cream, does not
have to be rebeaten, and can be made
in one operation.
For granita di limone you need
pint of lemon juice (about 6-8 lemons).
Mix with 1 pint of water, £lb. of sugar,
and the grated peel of 1 lemon. Bring
slowly to the boil and simmer for 2-3
minutes. Cool and freeze.
Granita di caffe is made with 1J
pints of strong black coffee. Dissolve
4 lb. of sugar in it. While this is cooling
add a zest of lemon peel. When cold,
remove the peel, add 1 tablespoon of
rum or brandy, and freeze.
Granita di fragole is made by pulp-
ing 21b. of strawberries. Add the juice
of 1 orange and a few crushed mint
leaves. Dissolve of sugar in pint
of water and boil gently for 5 minutes.
Allow to cool and then mix with the
fruit. Remove mint leaves and freeze.
This can be made similarly with any
fruit, but if using stone fruit add the
cracked stones to the boiling water and
sugar. Strain before pouring over pulp.
Creme Inglese, which is really frozen
custard, is the y type of ice-cream which
definitely needs the rebeating process.
Combine the beaten yolks of 4 eggs
and pint of cream (or six eggs and
1 pint of milk) in a double boiler. Add
a paring of lemon peel and stir, slowly
adding 3oz. of sugar and a little vanilla.
When the mixture thickens to the point
where it begins to coat the spoon, allow
to cool, and then freeeze, rebeating at
intervals. (Put your freezer on “full
freeze” until this process is finished,
then turn back to normal for the final
setting of the mixture.)
The character of this dessert can be
altered according to whim. To make
hut ice-cream (almond, hazelnut, or
pistachio), first grate the nuts, cover
them with a little boiling milk, and
allow to infuse. Then add to your
custard mixture. (With pistachio nuts
it is customary to add a few drops of
green food coloring.)
Once adept at coping with your own
ices you may wish to venture into the
glamor field of bombe for special
occasions.
Try lining a mould with a layer of
apricot ice-cream (made as above with
fresh fruit, well mashed) and freeze
quickly. Fill the centre with freshly
whipped • cream to which you have
added fine slivers of apricot and a little
kirsch (or any suitable liqueur).
Refreeze once again, remove and
quickly finish it off with a final layer
of apricot ice-cream. Cover and keep
at normal temperature in the freezer
until required.
For tutti frutti line your mould with
strawberry ice-cream and fill the centre
with Creme Inglese (or bought vanilla
ice-cream, if your resolution fails) into
which you have mixed chopped candied
fruit soaked in rum.
Happy licking and remember that
almost anything that tastes good can go
into a bombe.


Letterpress Offset Rotogravure Art Blocks.
U
n i|||mB
TOM’S FERY CONSCIOUS OF COLOR . . .
He needs to be works with it, lives by it, loves it. But the
machine Tom’s operating is even more color-conscious.
It’s a Vario Klic ho graph, used for making
printing blocks which give perfect color reproduction.
Conpress Printing Ltd. uses blocks like these
for high-quality letterpress printing. Your printing, perhaps?
If you have a printing problem, we have the answer at .. .
Conpress
-3 JAN
★
CONPRESS PRINT!KG LIMITED, 61-63 O'Riordan St., ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Telephone: 67-3031, Sydney. Sales Manager; F. G. Bohlsen.
