

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
The Japanese
in Australia


NOW SEE HERE, HITACHI,
JUST WHO DO YOU
THINK YOU ARE?
Well, we're a large Japanese Company who makes just
about everything you could want. It's hard to explain how
we can make so many things, actually, but we do.
And we make them all a little better. Really, we do.
Our research team of 2,500 makes sure each product is good
to begin with. A rigid standard of tests keeps
each product excellent.
These pictures indicate our size and scope to some extent.
All of them point to Hitachi quality.
Be assured of the best look for Hitachi.
SHIP LOADER
At the largest iron ore handling facility in the world, King Bay, W. Australia,
Hitachi equipment ship loader, stacker and car dumper carry a handling
capacity of 7,350 tons of ore per hour. Hitachi makes Hydro-hoists, too, a
new method of transporting coal hydraulically through pipes.
gi.,n.»r
0
HITACHI
Hitachi, Ltd. Tokyo Japan
CHIEF REPRESENTATIVE FOR
HITACHI, LTD. (JAPAN)
sth floor, Wynyard House, 291 George St., Sydney Telephone: 29-5451
Main Products: Turbines and Generators/Transformers/Rolling Stock/Nucle-
onics/Power Shovels and Cranes / Machine Tools / Electronic Computers/
Communications Equipment / Switchboards / Lighting / Electron Tubes / Semi-
Conductors / Scientific Instruments / Refrigeration / Air Conditioning / Motors/
Wire and Cable / Iron and Steel Products / Insulating Materials / Electrical
Home Appliances \
Overseas Offices: New York / San Francisco / Chicago / Mexico City/Panama/
New Delhi / Calcutta / Buenos Aires / Rio de Janeiro / Sao Paulo / Beirut /Singa-
pore / Bangkok / Taipei / Duesseldorf / Johannesburg / Seoul /London / Sydney
SUPER EXPRESS TRAINS
These super express trains were manufac-
tured by Hitachi for use on Japan's New
Tokaido Line. They travel at speeds up to
210 Km. p.h. .the fastest trains in the world.
TURBINES & GENERATORS
Shown here is one of the 113,000 KW
pumping-generating units at Nagano
Power Station, Japan. You'll find Hitachi
giant power equipment all over the world.
1
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
Heavy construction equipment, proven
tough in job after job, built better by
Hitachi.
mm
\
ELECTRON MICROSCOPES
Hitachi's new one million volt electron
microscope, used here for metallurgical
studies. Its added power makes new types
of investigations possible.
TAPE RECORDER
For recording, Hitachi has it. All kinds of
tape recorders, including this brand new
Cassette TRQ-210. Look for Hitachi radios
and TVs, too.


Ice cold
Wynvale
sunglasses
St
3*3
Glasses of cold wine, with ice or just
iced, from Wynvale Flagons.
Start your own ice age, quaff claret cold,
and cool your guests with hocks on
the rocks. Ice cold Wynvale Flagons, a
cool idea for a hot summer.
There is a Wynvale Flagon to suit
every taste, all superb served cold as
summer wines, and so economical.
Europeans quaff their everyday wines
when and how they please, so should
you. Experiment. Ice with wine
isn’t breaking rules, just new ground.
L
WYNVALE
SUMMER
WINE
From Wynn’s own vineyards
and cellars in S.A. and N.S.w.
FPBS2
The Bulletin
VOL. 89, No. 4586
JANUARY 27, 1968
ESTABLISHED 1880
THE JAPANESE
IN AUSTRALIA 19
COLUMNS
One More Week 4_
Out & About
by Daphne Guinness 8
Alan Reid, ''Observer" 13-14
Speculator's Diary 36_
Marion Raymond's
Cookbook 53
COLOR PORTFOLIO 11_
COMMENT 13_
AUSTRALIA 15_
SPECIAL FEATURES 23_
OVERSEAS 28
BUSINESS 8> FINANCE 32
THE UNO 45_
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 46
BOOKS 50_
LETTERS 54
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney 2001—Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Box 4088. Phone: 2-06G6.
Melbourne 3000 Newspaper House,
Collins Street. Phone: 63-3341.


ONE MORE
WEEK
RECRUITING
CANADIAN education people are at
present in Australia recruiting once
more, and, one would think, success-
fully. Current London newspapers
carry advertisements for teachers for
New South Wales; salary range, non-
graduates $A2885 to $4385, graduates
$3555 to $5290. On the opposite page
is an advertisement for teachers for
Toronto, Canada. Salary scale is
$C4600 to $9200 for non-graduates and
$6lOO to $13,200 for graduates. (Con-
verted to Australian dollars, the
Canadian range is $3BlB to $10,956.)
WARNING
THE NEW HOLDEN is out next week.
Prominently displayed at General
Motors-Holden’s factories are warnings
against carelessly discarding papers or
bits of information of interest to the
opposition: “Don’t feed the competi-
tors.”
BIRDS OF A FEATHER
CONSERVATIONISTS fought suc-
cessfully to rescind the decision of the
Administrator of Warringah Council,
put in to look after things when the
elected council proved ineffectual, to
hand over four acres of the Dee Why
lagoon, one of the northern beaches of
Sydney, to a bowling club. The con-
servationists and many local residents
pointed out that the lagoon was the
home of the tailor bird. Why should
it leave its natural habitat for the
white-legged bowler?
The Minister for Local Government
intervened and the decision on the
lagoon will wait for an elected council.
However, Paddington residents are
not making headway against the De-
partment of Main Roads, which plans
to slice up this suburb. Why should it
be harder for the Paddingtonian to
preserve its natural habitat than it is
for the tailor bird?
WELCH CONVERTED
AFTER 15 months in New York, Garth
Welch’s ideas about choreography have
received a hearty injection of the
modern.
In October, 1966, the Australian
Ballet Company’s premier danseur be-
came the second dancer ever to be
awarded a Harkness Foundation Grant,
and left for New York “to spend the
money more or less as I liked.”
He chose to sample as many schools
of dance as he could, and, to his sur-
prise, found himself most impressed
with the work of Martha Graham and
the other exponents of modern dance.
“I’d expected to spend more time on
classical ballet. When I got there, I
wanted to see Balanchine most, but
after the first season I got bored with
his work—although some of the things
he did in the ’thirties are still modern.”
Before he left Australia, Welch had
worked in musical comedy during the
early days of his career, and knew
something about jazz ballet but little
about modern dance. His first days at
Martha Graham’s did little to invoke
his enthusiasm.
“I hated it at first. I used to think,
Garth Welch ... bored with Balanchine
I’m not liking this, so why come any
more, but I decided to give it another
week, and during that week it really
got to me. The basis of it is that any
movement can be dance. It doesn’t
have to be restricted to the five move-
ments or whatever. Walking can be
part of it. You have to use your body
a lot more. Movements are emotions.”
Emotions that can be incorporated
into classical ballet? “I have seen it
done, but not as successfully as it
might.
“Classical dancing was based on the
Romantic period when ballerinas used
'to wear corsets under their tutus. And
dancers here don’t know the modern
dance principles I’ve learnt—but I
think it could be done.”
Welch has choreographed several
works for the Australian Ballet, but he
has now returned to his role as premier
danseur for the company’s South-East
Asian tour. He’ll dance in “Ray-
monda,” “The Display,” and “The
Lady and the Fool.”
“After that, I hope to have the
opportunity to do some choreography.
Unless I’m commissioned to do a clas-
sical ballet, it will be something using
the modern dance techniques I’ve
learnt.”
POPPING UP
WHILE POP MUSIC overseas be-
comes more complex and quasi-high-
brow, in Australia it has spent a year in
the doldrums. It is only now, at the
outset of 1968, that there seem to be
signs of a revival, and the big Sydney
Stadium concert this week—the biggest,
in fact, since the Beatles’ —starring Paul
Jones, the Who, and the Small Faces,
may well stimulate a whole new flood
of local record releases.
Eighteen months ago, Normie Rowe
was the top figure with a spectacular
success that recalled that of Johnny
O’Keefe eight years earlier. Then
Rowe, disastrously, went to England.
The latest contender for his empty
throne is Johnny Farnham, an 18-year-
old former plumber, with a frenzied fan
audience in Melbourne. Farnham’s
“Sadie, the Cleaning Lady,” with
vacuum-cleaner obbligato, is currently
high in the hit parades in several States.
Apart from Farnham, most of the
popular performers in Australia today
have formed themselves into groups, of
which the best are probably the Twi-
lights and the Executives. Most of
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Instead of reading Plato and
Socrates at night I’m now reading
Bloodhound brochures.
Lee Kuan Yew
The gods of the British Labor Party,
now, as in the past, are gods to be
propitiated with the blood of the next
generation.
British Conservative MP Enoch Powell
Sensible switching of our troops to
home bases does not mean betraying
our promises. It is irresponsible of Mr.
Lee Kuan Yew and others to pretend
it does.
London “Daily Mail”
Prince Charles is as likely to reign
over Australia as he is over America.
Ross Mark in the London “Daily Express’’
My loathings are simple stupidity,
oppression, crime, cruelty, soft music,
and my pleasures are the most intense
known to man writing and butterfly-
hunting.
Vladimir Nabokov
The union cannot get a directive out
to members because there is no mail.
—Acting Victorian Secretary of the Australian
Postal Workers’ Union, J. Spence
To the suggestion of a Coral Sea
celebration with “more peaceful over-
tones” I can only express complete
surprise.
E. K. White, President of the Australian-
American Association.


.
e
*1
&E
V
si£*l
The Shell 22 point Safety
Check costs just one dollar.
The safe feeling is free.
mn
A feeling of car confidence,
knowing your car is safe at
all times. Your Shell dealer is
trained to give you that
feeling with the Shell 22 point
Safety Check.
He’ll take extra care over
your car in all 22 vital car
safety areas. From little
things like door locks, to the
big things like brakes and
tyres. Just call in and see
your Shell dealer about his 22
point Safety Check, before
you go on holidays. It costs
just one dollar.
The safe feeling it gives you
is free.
Go
.well:
It’s a safe feeling


Thrill to a wild
Fijian meke on your
way to the USA!
....
i
shop duty free too.
An exciting native war-dance and a lavish barbecue by torch-
light are especially arranged for US-bound travellers taking
Air India's daylight jet to Fiji. Stopover for about 9 free hours,
have a sunset swim,dance by moonlight to soft island music.
Shop duty-free for cameras, watches, transistors, tape
recorders —all at about 50% below
Australian prices. Then pick up your
onward connection and reach the USA
on schedule. See your travel agent or
Air India about our daylight jets to Fiji.
AIRINDIA
the airline that treats you like a Maharajah — worldwide.
14938
with BO AC and Qantas.
A205.102.855c
these are pretty closely modelled on
English groups.
In Sydney, at lunch-time, the Op
Pop, a cavernous blue-black cellar in
Castlereagh Street, with mirrors, harsh
bands, and teenagers in what appear
to be cast-offs lurking in every corner,
is packed solid, and on Saturday nights
600 or more will be found slumped on
the steps or milling round the dance
floor. North Sydney’s sober purlieus
have been enlivened of late by Here, a
brash discotheque that is open until
well past midnight; the Manly Pacific
Hotel is crammed on Saturdays for the
Questions, the P.A. Club at Prince
Alfred Hospital jumps to the Cast-
aways group; along the North Shore a
string of wine bars and discotheques
rivals the more urban attractions of
the Hawaiian Eye, the Whisky a Go-
Go, the Vibes, and Beethoven’s. None
of these places can match the Mel-
bourne discotheques, headed by
Sebastians and Berties, which have
superb bands and facilities and feature
the liveliest singers in the country.
“Wild” groups are still the rage in
some areas: with these the band wear-
ing garish colors and way-out hairstyles
or moustaches, some of which are worn
Chinese-style. Names are equally way
out: the Plastic Tears, for instance,
which smashes TV sets on stage;
Shaggy-haired Ted the Head invades
the rostrum, takes an axe to the sets,
and reduces them to rubble. In some
acts most popular at, of all placps,
St. Ives and Chatswood a guitar
player will chase members of the band
round the audience and through the
ladies’ lavatory. There are custard-pie
or shaving-cream fights on stage, two
members of the band dress up as Super-
man and the Gorilla and battle
mightily to shrieks of delight from
cohorts of girls, and the battle ends up
with Superman tearing the Gorilla’s
head off, to disclose an almost equally
shaggy one underneath. The Plastic
Tears might give Ted the Head a
bath, to similar screams, or a character
might swing from the rafters of a
dance hall like Tarzan, his hair danger-
ously ablaze until someone thoughtfully
douses it with a pail of water.
Bands dress up in blazers, dresses,
and women’s hats, earrings, army uni-
forms, and dog collars. Many bands
here have gone overboard for an “out
of sight” (new term for “way out”)
musical style, based on such groups as
the American Jimmy Hendrix’s Experi-
ence, which creates eerie “outer space”
audio effects with specially treated
guitars and amplifiers.
On the radio scene, the managers of
the stations are still sticking like the
clubs which have drained so much of
the life from the Sydney pop scene
to a middle-of-the-road, middle-aged
and adipose musical approach, but DJs
Bob Rogers, Stan Rofe, Ward Austin,
and John Burgess gamely battle on to
launch a. number of big local successes,
most notably the Executives and the
Twilights.
The pop scene is controlled by a


■**
\
v
WA
Mv daddy's a doctor
and'lie’s just bought me
a swimming pod
from Bermuda”
The idea which appealed most to Tommy’s dad about buying a Bermuda
Pool was that it would be designed and built by a fully qualified civil
engineer. But, he also wanted a firm whose business methods he could
trust implicitly, and whose pool building ability was unquestioned. In
Bermuda, he found both these qualities.
Not all our clients are doctors, but they are all serious-minded people.
People who appreciate that it takes a firm of professionals to build
them a first-class pool!
You can expect a lot more
when you buy a Bermuda Pool.
Phone Bermuda now for the full story. J
Our telephonist is on duty 24
hours a day to receive your call.
4391251
m
t Al_J
BERMUDA POOLS PTY. LTD., 50 WILLOUGHBY ROAD, CROWS NEST, N.S.W.
bewildering number of large and small
managing agencies. Of these, AEE is
probably the most ambitious, with the
Executives, the Plastic Tears, and the
Wild Cherries among the 30 or more
groups on its cards. Peter Raphael, who
runs the Melbourne end of the business,
controls the teenage music magazine,
“Go-Set,” which features a column by
Stan Rofe, doyen of teenage music DJs
in Melbourne, articles on stars and
groups, and lavish advertisements by
their agents, together with advertise-
ments for teenage gear.
In Sydney, AEE’s boss is Harry Wid-
mer. He is a quietly spoken and intelli-
gent industrial designer, working for
Kriesler. Five months ago he accepted
a bet to take some “unknown industrial
Farnham ... approaching the empty
throne
product” the choice to be his and
turn it into a success by promotion.
Instead of some radio or cosmetics line,
he seized on people, an unknown group
called the Associates.
He could see that here was a pos-
sible way of blending the teenage and
adult worlds, and that the rather thin
market could be fully exploited by
moving the group from one generation
to the other without a hitch. He changed
the name of the group to the
Executives at once vaguely appealing
to the older generation and slightly
way out for the younger. To launch
it, he used the Federal Elections: 9000
posters were attached to Liberal and
Labor posters, so that “VOTE FOR
. . was now followed, not by the
face and name of a well-known candi-
date, but by the picture and name of
the Executives.
All popular music is waiting for now
is a 27-carat, upright, downright, no-
nonsense star, of the kind Johnny
O’Keefe once was or Normie Rowe
almost became back, back in the
primeval past that 18 months ago now
seems.


business
a
3
..orpleasure
Menzies is for both! It’s one of the world’s finest hotels.
It has luxurious rooms and suites. The ultimate in
international cuisine. Excellent convention facilities.
And the most personalised service.
MENZIES
14 Carrington Street, Sydney. Telephone 2-0232
For immediate reservations contact: MELBOURNE - SAVOY PLAZA • BRISBANE - LENNONS BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA - LENNONS TOOWOOMBA • ADELAIDE - HOTEL AUSTRALIA • HOBART - WREST POINT RIVIERA
MZI/50.102g.
OUT AND
ABOUT
The flower man
hates the sweet
smell of success
By DAPHNE GUINNESS
EVERYBODY KNOWS Paul Jones,
breathes this girl one night at a party,
he’s the world’s greatest flower painter,
you know, everybody knows him. And
a little bit later Paul Jones, glass in
hand, leans against the wall and says
he is sick to death of flowers and he’s
gonna give them up, he really is, he’s
tired of the flower tag, if he doesn’t do
something about it soon he’ll go mad;
can you imagine what it’s like having
people quiz you about camellias all the
time when all he wants is to talk about
ordinary things? Well, it’s terrible.
The next thing is meeting Paul Jones
in his chic little Double Bay flat with
a Donald Friend, a Fred Williams, and
others of that calibre hanging on the
walls, and a Jag parked outside, and a
shade more precisely the flower painter
says he sat down the other day and
counted the camellias he has painted.
You know, in case someone asked. “Nine
hundred — nine hundred plates, that
is. Say two camellias to a plate, that’s
1800, not counting buds. Then there
are all those leaves, oh, four to a
camellia, 7200 leaves. Someone sug-
gested I got a stamp made for the
leaves and banged it on in different
directions. I sometimes wonder why I
don’t
Actually, the upsetting thing for Paul
Jones is being Paul Jones. Everything
he does is popular. He hates the word.
An endless market exists for his work.
Heaven knows it’s not fashionable to
paint flowers, but everyone wants them.
Not only his camellias, though 12 years
flogging those, he says, is enough for
anyone. Put his name on a lump of coal
and it would sell. No. The challenge
has gone and oh, how wonderful it
would be to paint what is not in demand
and what is not wanted. Now that’s
the sort of remark guaranteed to turn
interior-decorator Leslie Walford, who
is selling Mr. Jones’ latest jungle pic-
tures in his own chic Double Bay place,
into a frenzy. Not selling, sold, says the
artist gloomily.
Today, Paul Jones is not in party
form. He is clad in jeans, red check


• .
& *..
%
x y 3- ggggjg >£j
x wgsg#& wssB& ■■■■■■ ;
rrrr-?. .-.w .• Ar'-rrrr-'... ...v.A*rrr-A>> saw-..#?®** 5 ® aw
■ : i::vV
sr~~~~ ..v*^ - -x. '
<, $$88S8& ,^s
Building on
your irind?
That’s where we at Paynter & Dixon can help. We pioneered the
complete building service in Australia and are familiar with your
problem. Our experienced technical specialists will combine all
operations of design and construction under one organisation . . .
one contract —from site location through planning, construction to
service after completion.
The convenience of engaging one organisation to design, engineer
and construct your new building, factory or plant under a single
packaged contract has many distinct advantages.
Let Paynter & Dixon take the load off your mind and prove to you
how the “single responsibility” concept in building can save you
time, worry and money.
PAYNTER & DIXON PTY. LTD.
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
29-7951.
PD86468
PAYNTER
& DIXON
DKBXON
CONSTRUCTION
Branches in Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
shirt, brown suede boots, his customary
attire, and thrashes round the kitchen
spilling coffee. This flat is part of his
frustration: it’s too small and he is
moving soon to a Bellevue Hill unit with
a view. He plumps the sofa cushions,
then punches them viciously. No one
ever sits on his plumped cushions, except
Robert Morley, and 'he took up the
whole sofa. People say they’d rather
sit on the arm. He throws himself
into an armchair, heaves himself out
when the telephone rings, and returns
with a sigh: that was Sue Du Val, who
teaches gourmet cooking to half of Syd-
ney’s Eastern Suburbs housewives, the
better half, inviting Mr. Jones to a bar-
becue. He can’t. He’s working.
That morning, in fact, he dabbled
around with abstract flowers, the ab-
stract being the new bit for him. He
is not very happy with it. Look, don’t
you see? He swings his legs impatiently.
Every time he makes a change it be-
comes popular. The birds, for instance,
they became too popular, so he stopped
doing them. Then he did native heads,
but they became popular. Then he went
on to lakes, and now they’re popular.
The other day he had this large yellow
lake picture propped up by the fireplace,
unfinished, with three white smudges on
it. Some guests walked in and said, is it
yours, Paul? Because, if so, we want it.
Without asking the price. Oh, it’ll be
about $BOO. They can have it.
The funny thing is, to return to
camellias, he actually did make a tre-
mendous effort to break new ground
immediately after the publication of
the “Camellia Quest” and “Camellia
Trail” books that made his name. He
took, he says, a very slow tourist boat
to England to rediscover himself, but
no sooner had he landed than an
eccentric woman called Urquhart
rushed up and said, Mr. Jones, you
simply must do a book on camellias for
my publisher husband. Ah, well. Then
came camellias in Europe, in Portugal,
in Spain, in the Channel Islands, in
Wales, in Ireland, in the United States
of America. Dammit, camellias even
turned up over his bed in Japan. There
have been camellia color slides, camellia
prizewinning floats, camellia conven-
tions, camellia queens, and once he
was camellia guest-of-honor.
There is no consoling Mr. Jones. He
is a success and hates it. He won’t
change his name, which is one answer
to his dilemma, and that’s another
aspect of this agonising situation: there
are five Paul Jones’ in the phone book.
He gets their calls, their bills, their
letters, sometimes he gets their friends.
So he has moved to Pink Pages.
Anyway, his latest commission is a
series of Australian wildflowers for an
exhibition in London. He is doing them
because he ought. “I shall probably,”
says Paul Jones miserably, “end up
painting pretty pictures for ladies’ bed-
rooms on the North Shore.”


1
First in the
Alphabet of
Chemicals:
Allied
Chemical
Whatever industry you’re in
whatever your need: if you
look for new applications, new
products, better production
methods ... start at the top:
under the A’s you’ll find
Allied Chemical.
Modern plants, complete
research facilities, wide pro-
duct range and a worldwide
organization to serve you
That’s Allied Chemical ... a
respected international leader
in the industrial field.
It pays to speak to Allied
Chemical.
Australia & New Zealand
Office: Allied Chemical
(Australia) Sales Ltd.
P.O. Box 4547, Sydney, N.S.W.
V
a
/
4
— -z*mg
’••rim.
Mas*
ir
« % *
&
er
v
s&
•-m* ‘ r m
/
itSS/SS/Z
'ISf/S/SSX
served: Chemical, Paint, Plastics, Packaging, Rubber,Refrigeration,Electronics,Food Processing,Textile.


MELBOURNE'S
FLEA MARKET
SOUTH YARRA’S Flea Market has
been described as something between
a church bazaar and a hippie happen-
ing. It operates in a house, owned by
Mrs. J. Deebler, and stalls, rented at
$5 a week, are open for business on
Friday afternoon and Saturday.
Left, stall under the
stairs has a tall plas-
ter statue on sale, a
very much sought-
after object
Right, fossicking
among the sort of
stuff which St. Vin-
cent de Paul used to
accept with a sigh
Above, the Flea
Market becomes as
crowded as the
Saturday morning
supermarket
Above, what custom-
ers sneered at yester-
day they may fall on
with enthusiasm to-
day
Left, a stallholder
sits hopefully along-
side a display of
ceramics
Below, there are sometimes possibili
ties of enlarging your wardrobe.
Pictures by LEE PEARCE
Right, customers visit
the market to see
who is there as much
as what is there


'm-:
St*
Im
•».1
■' ■*,,*. v /*’*'*#£
%:CZ
\bu may never quite get used to
those second glances that come your way
You didn't notice them, not at first; you were too absorbed
with piloting your new Datsun 2000 from the moment
you drove it out of the showroom, with just the hint of
perspiration on your palms, wondering if you shouldn't
have done a brief conversion course after driving that
everyone-has-one machine for so long.
Then after you'd panicked at the traffic lights, and dived
for the ignition key when you gotthe green and found that
the engine was running, but so quietly; and when your
familiarity with all the knobs and switches controlling the
comfort and safety features had given you that quiet glow
of proud ownership, then you became relaxed and
conscious of those double takes from others on the road
and from behind curtains on your own street.
There was that fellow in the long American job at the
intersection, who sidled alongside and looked so long
that he nearly forgot to make his challenge; that girl in the
big round sun glasses in the open sports car who didn't
even notice who was driving the Datsun —that's what
you've got to expect now; those second glances of which
you may never grow tired.
DATSUN
Datsun 2000 the Scene Stealer
Big 6 cylinder, 5 models, from $2986 tax paid.
Nissan Motor Co. (Aust) Pty. Ltd., 98 York St., STH. MELB., 3205. Ph. 69 7201. VIC. Datsun Distribution (Vic) Pty. Ltd., 98 York St.,
STH. MELB., 3205. Ph. 69 7201. N.S.W. Capitol Motors Group, 65 William St., SYDNEY, 2000. Ph. 31 9051. QLD. Ira Berk (Qld) Pty.
Ltd., 116 Wickham St., BRISBANE, 4000. Ph. 5 3561. S.A. Datsun Distribution (SA) Pty. Ltd., Maple Ave., KESWICK, 5035.
W.A. Duncan Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 701-703 Wellington St., PERTH, 6000. Ph. 21 8761. TAS. Northern Motors, 106-110 George St.,
LAUNCESTON, 7250. Ph. 2 1651. N.T. Cavenagh Car Sales Pty. Ltd., Cavenagh St., DARWIN, 5790. Ph. 6 491.


Our man in London: be
hard-headed
COMMENT
BY
“OBSERVER”
NOW THAT EVEN MEMBERS of
the Royal Commonwealth Society must
be beginning to understand that so far
as government-to-government relations
are concerned, it is in Australia’s in-
terests that we should regard Britain as
being just another country, the Aus-
tralian Government should see to it
that we have better diplomatic repre-
sentation in London than we now have.
It is quite ridiculous that, in a nation
with which an important part of our
foreign policy is now concerned, we are
represented by an amateur who is not
only untalented for his job but an
Anglophile as well.
Sir Alex Downer, one of those Aus-
tralians who is more English than the
English, had no diplomatic experience
before he moved from being an un-
inspired Minister in the Menzies Gov-
ernment to being Australian High Com-
missioner in London. As part of a habit
that should be now discarded, he is not
even under the direct control of the
External Affairs Department, but of
the Prime Minister. The External
Affairs man in London, Mr. Tom
Critchley, previously one of the most
famous diplomats of South-East Asia,
is a mere understrapper to him. Critch-
ley’s friends in the British Foreign
Office know of his role as one of those
who assisted the Indonesians in their
struggle for independence and who was
then a confidant of Tunku Abdul
Rahman in Malaysia; embarrassed by
Lis present inferior status, they intro-
duce him as “the former Australian
High Commissioner to Malaysia.”
What possible reason can there still
be for making our diplomatic represen-
tation in London of a different kind
from our representation in Washington
or Djakarta, Wellington or Singapore?
The London post should be put into
the control of the External Affairs
Department, just like any other post,
and in charge of it should be a pro-
fessional diplomat, and a hard-headed
one at that. The present arrangement
means that we have two foreign policies:
one for the rest of the world and one
for Britain. Part of the muddle of
misunderstandings that preceded the
British announcement of their accel-
erated timetable for pulling out from
South-East Asia came from this very
anomaly.
A retired politician is not likely to
be able to make those shrewd pro-
fessional evaluations of the foreign
country to which he is credited that
to a really good diplomat should
become second nature. Apart from his
lack of expertise in approach, he is
still likely to retain his political in-
stincts: he is likely to report back to
Canberra in terms that he believes
Cabinet wiH want to hear, rather than
give an impartial evaluation, and in
his conduct in London he.is likely to
act still as a Cabinet Minister, as some-
thing of an independent force, rather
than as a diplomatic officer who must
carry out his country’s foreign policy,
at whatever personal embarrassment.
Britain is a complex society, still
organised hierarchically. It is no good
making the External Affairs man a
mere number three. If he is to do his
job properly he must be at the top, so
that he can deal with the top people.
And he should approach his appoint-
ment as if Britain were Thailand, or
Nigeria, or Korea—-a country that is '
different from his own, that he must
study for its peculiarities, and toward
which he must maintain a certain de-
tachment. Not only does Sir Alex lack
the training to make a skilled assess-
ment of a foreign country: so far as
Britain is concerned he obviously has
an emotional involvement toward it
which is likely to blind his judgment.
Personalities aside, it is of the utmost
importance, for Britain’s sake as well as
Australia’s, that we should quickly
begin to redefine our mutual relation-
ship in a manner that, although
friendly, allows maximum opportunity
for open and blunt expression of
opinion; and since British Governments
are mere things of the day, with the
British people of more permanent im-
portance to us than their Governments,
we should not be afraid to speak to
them over the heads of their Govern-
ments. We have, during most of the
period of Liberal Government, de-
veloped a most unfortunate habit of
sycophancy in our official public atti-
tudes toward the British. This has
given them a false idea of our real
attitudes and it has meant that we have
not been able to draw on the strong
feelings of brotherhood that still link
our two peoples.
One way in which we could drama-
tise our own attitudes would be, if
necessary, unilaterally, to renounce the
business of describing as High Commis-
sioners our diplomatic representatives
in Britain and the countries that have
been carved out of the former Empire.
They could simply be called Ambas-
sadors, like our representatives in all
other countries. Is there any particular
reason why our man in London should
be a High Commissioner, when our
man in Washington is an Ambassador?
Or why our man in East Africa should
have a name that suggests a special
relationship that we do not formalise
in the same way with Indonesia or the
Philippines or Cambodia? For good
measure, we should tell the British that
we would like to start dealing with the
Foreign Office direct, rather than with
the Commonwealth Relations Office,
which, to save a bit more money, they
might as well shut down.
Union politics behind the
Post Office dispute
COMMENT
BY
ALAN
REID
TRADE UNION politics, almost as
much as the justified irritation of the
postal workers at the leisurely and
lordly pace with which the Public Ser-
vice Board handles their claims,
heightened the intensity of the postal
dispute.
First there were internal Amal-
gamated Postal Workers’ Union
politics. It is a faction-torn union.
The present controllers, headed by the
Federal secretary, Mr. George Slater,
40, ex-RAN, are supported by the Left-
wing factions, including, amusingly,
both the Peking- and Moscow-aligned
Communist groups (Slater got on-side
with the Peking faction by visiting
China last year as the guest of China
Communications Union). Then there
are displaced groupers and others. All
are trying to outdo each other in prov-
ing their militancy.
This rivalry for pre-eminence in
militancy was undoubtedly a factor in
causing the dispute started over the
dismissal of a driver (whose reinstate-
ment was negotiated by the ACTU
within a matter of hours) growing into
something that disrupted the nation’s
mail communications.
At the moment the ACTU as an
effective force is almost neutralised.
On its interstate executive of 16 there
are eight who support the general line
followed by the ACTU President, Mr.
Albert Monk, and ACTU secretary,
Mr. Harold Souter, and eight Left-
wingers who want to displace both
Monk and Souter. The interstate
executive on quite a number of signi-
ficant issues over recent months has
been deadlocked into inaction.
Mr. Slater, titular manager of the
Post Office dispute in his capacity as
APWU Federal Secretary, is notori-
ously anti-ACTU. But he is only
anti-ACTU when he is tilting at
Monk and Souter. It is then that he
describes the ACTU as . “the grave-
yard of industrial disputes” and Monk
and Souter in equally derogatory terms
(he was made to apologise to the


Polyvinyl chloride i
resins for industry
B. F. Goodrich-CSR i
Chemicals Limited ;
GEON IS KIDS’ STUFF!
X This kid’s rain-boot is a single piece of Geon PVC! One mould, one
operation. Simple? Dunlop will tell you even complicated moulding
jobs can be kids’ stuff with Geon.
Geon PVC.can be moulded cleanly and precisely into detailed
shapes with an ease and accuracy that would be impossible
with conventional materials.
Make a yellow boot and it’s the same yellow all over and
it stays that way - Geon PVC products outlast the
toughest of competition. And Geon PVC is impervious
to oil and water.
With Geon PVC you need less machinery (about 75%
less) to produce the same amount of product and
you produce it more cheaply. This means reduced
overheads and increased profits.
Geon PVC is versatile. Dunlop use one compound
to make one-operation boots and sandals like
this one and another sort to make pre- or
injection- moulded soles for their
shoes, slippers and sneakers aimed
at the adult market.
Whatever your particular problem,
chances are the research team at
B.F. Goodrich-CSRC can produce a
Geon resin that solves it.
Send the coupon or write today.
Kids’ stuff!
HOW CAN GEON HELP INCREASE MY PROFITS?
NAME |
POSITION |
COMPANY |
ADDRESS I
PHONE ' I
POST TO:
B. F. GOODRICH-CSR CHEMICALS LIMITED
Dept.G. 564 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne,
Victoria, 3004. Telephone 51 8768.
BFGI2
ACTU interstate executive for his be-
haviour as recently as August last).
But when he got into a real jam,
such as last week, where did he turn?
To Monk. The ACTU no longer was
“the graveyard of industrial disputes.”
It became “the cabinet of the workers,”
to use Slater’s own words.
But even here he was not quite dis-
ingenuous. Monk was unmistakably
hostile to the way in which the dispute
had been run and spread. More than
a week ago, Monk, with Slater present,
had negotiated a settlement with the
Commonwealth, which included the
reinstatement of the dismissed driver.
Monk had expected the strike to
end immediately. Instead the APWU
Federal Executive, which has Slater as
its official adviser, rejected the settle-
ment, and the strike went on. Monk
indicated his feelings pretty bluntly
by saying that he had “pulled out” of
the dispute.
In normal circumstances and under
these conditions, Slater in referring the
dispute back to the ACTU was taking
the risk of getting a public telling-off
from Monk, who has suffered from the
lash of Slater’s tongue for a long time.
But Monk was down a vote on the
ACTU interstate executive. Mr. Mick
Jordan, secretary of the Melbourne
Trades Hall, was abroad attending a
trade union conference in India.
ACTU rules do not provide for
alternative delegates. Monk had only
seven on the interstate executive with
which to confront the Left Wing’s eight.
It is not without significance that
Slater, when asking for the ACTU to
take the dispute out of his rather appre-
hensive hands, insisted that the judg-
ments should be made, not by Monk
and Souter, but by the ACTU inter-
state executive, on which, with Jordan
away, he hoped that he and not Monk
would have a majority of sympathisers.
While trade-union politics contributed
•' to the dispute, so did the Government’s
dilatoriness. As Prime Minister Senator
Gorton said, there has been a malaise
in Post Office industrial relationships
for some time.
The slow-moving, ponderous Public
Service Board, where problems mature
slowly and with dignity, is hardly an
organisation fitted to deal with the
rapid-fire problems that emerge in an
organisation like the Post Office. Delays
are interminable. Other unions besides
the Pose Office unions have found de-
lays of up to two years —now possibly
cut down, but still liable to be 12 or 18
months—before they can ge: hearings
for their claims.
It is not that the Government has
been unaware of the problem and the
strains that follow in the wake of such
delays. There have been pieces of paper
floating between the PMG’s Depart-
ment, Labor and National Service, and
the Public Service Board for over a
year now. But they have remained
pieces of paper and not crystallised into
a form in which the employer the
PMG Department takes responsi-
bility for industrial relations with its
employees.


AUSTRALIA
The postal strike: an end
or a beginning?
THE STILL unanswered question: was
the postal stoppage for technical
reasons the Public Service Board does
not call it a strike—brought on by the
Postmaster-General’s Department with
the advice of the Department of Labor
and National Service?
The postal workers have been work-
ing to regulations in support of their
claims for higher wages and a five-day
week. The claims have been making
poor progress before an unsympathetic
Public Service Board, which is not well
equipped to handle industrial matters
affecting such groups as mail sorters,
postmen, and drivers. The rejection of
their claims has led to disruption of
mail services and the promise of con-
tinuing disruption.
In December the general secretary of
the Union of Postal Clerks and
Telegraphists, Mr. J. S. Baker, stated
with some apparent justification that
the Public Service Board had been
instructed by the Government to refuse
all union demands: “The flat refusal of
all submissions is quite alien to the
Board’s way of conducting negotiations
to the extent that we can only conclude
that they were acting under strict
instructions from a Minister.”
If the Government and the PMG ex-
pected no resolution of the union claims,
as Mr. Baker and also the general
secretary of the Amalgamated Postal
Workers’ Union, Mr. George Slater,
have stated, some plan had to be
devised to end the unions’ interference
with mail services.
It is always open to the Government
to have individual public servants fined
or dismissed but there is no way of
directly penalising public servants’
unions. One key ,man who is unhappy
about this situation is Sir Henry Bland,
the former head of the Department of
Labor and National Service who be-
lieves that Public Service unions should
be open to the same penalties as those
outside, and who has often been a keen
supporter of the application of the penal
clauses of the Arbitration Act to water-
side workers and other unions.
Some observers now see dismissal of
a mail driver for refusing to handle a
defective mailbag as the first move by
the Government in a strategic game to
call the bluff of the unions, force them
into a position where they are alien-
ated from the support of the Press and
public opinion, and then bring them to
heel by either imposing penal clauses
on them or threatening them with the
imposition of penal clauses.
The Government would have known
that the presence of the headstrong Mr.
G. Slater in the dispute was likely to
work to its benefit. And Mr. Slater
obliged when he gave the strike political
overtones in claiming that if only Mr.
Whitlam were Prime Minister things
would be different, and when he drove
a wedge into the union front by declar-
ing that Mr. Monk was not worth a five-
cent stamp and should be replaced as
ACTU president by Mr. Bob Hawke.
Mr. Slater’s well-known affection for the
works of Chairman Mao is another of
his industrial disabilities in any propa-
ganda struggle.
The Government has so far won the
battle for public opinion, but it may
have failed to predict that the postal
stoppage would produce a spate of
recommendations that perhaps the real
trouble lies in the nature of the PMG
and its consequent relations with the
Public Service Board. The Bulletin
and others have for some time sug-
gested that the PMG’s Department
might be more efficiently run if it were
removed from the Public Service and
run as a statutory kind of body like
TAA.
Apart from the economic advan-
tages in such a re-organisation there
would be much more chance of in-
dustrial harmony. Negotiations over
wages and conditions could proceed
between the directors and the unions
without recourse to the Public Service
Board or the Public Service Arbitrator,
both of which have too much to handle
already and neither of which is really
competent to judge the multifarious
claims of diverse kinds of post and
telegraph workers.
If the present industrial unrest is
to be resolved without leaving a legacy
of grudges and the seeds of further
trouble, the Government would be
advised to examine some administrative
re-structuring before it next wields the
big stick.
Federal Departments
Time for changes
THE POST OFFICE strike has high-
lighted the unsatisfactory arrangements
under which our postal services oper-
ate. Prime Minister Gorton, speaking
of the strike at his first Press conference
last week, said once it was solved he
wanted to find out whether there was
any “underlying malaise” in the admin-
istration of the Post Office. That
malaise, as everyone in Canberra
knows, lies in the three-way division
of authority over Post Office matters.
Treasury has detailed control over
financing and the Public Service Board
over staffing, leaving only a limited
area of authority to the managers of
the Post Office.
The obvious reform is that the Post
Office, like any other business selling
services to the public, should be set up
as a business undertaking with its own
control over finance and staffing.
But the most fundamental ineffici-
encies in the Commonwealth Public
Service derive from a division in plan-
Postal workers outside 'the Sydney mail exchange


ning. Financial planning for Depart-
ments is done by the Treasury, man-
power planning by the Public Service
Board. In the U.S. both are combined
within a Bureau of the Budget, and in
the U.K. they were recently combined
within the Treasury. Canada also made
this reform recently.
The implementation of modern pro-
gram-budgeting and a systematic plan-
ning of Government activities in Aus-
tralia must wait on the unification of
such planning within one agency. But
Prime Minister Gorton shows no signs
yet of facing up to this one.
At his Press conference he did speak
of “administrative rearrangements.”
There are a number of changes he has
in mind, One is to separate the Ad-
ministration of New Guinea from the
other “territories” at present within the
Department administered by Mr.
Barnes.
Responsibility for New. Guinea could
go to the Department of External
Affairs or to a separate department.
Eventually most of the New Guinea
work done in Canberra must be shifted
to Port Moresby, including control of
public servants in P.-N.G. _ A more
vigorous development effort is depend-
ent on ending administration by remote
control.
There have been many suggestions
that transport policy would be
strengthened by combining the Depart-
ment of Shipping and Transport with
the Department of Civil Aviation into
a Department of Transport. The Trea-
sury would like to see the administra-
tion of airports put on a commercial
basis like that for ports, and such a
move (unlikely immediately) would
mean hiving off a large section of the
Department of Civil Aviation and form-
ing it into the basis for ,a new statutory
body: an Australian Airports Authority.
Immigration convention
How many Asians?
IMMIGRATION’S ANNUAL Citizen-
ship Convention has been for long a
favorite target for the sharp tongues of
critical commentators. Over the years
it has been variously described as an
Establishment junket, a closeting of
Government officials and their tame
friends, and a fruitless exercise of the
smug congratulating other smug in an
atmosphere of bonhomie generated,
of course, by the best hospitality that
the Government can buy at $lOO,OOO
or so.
The 1968 Convention does seem' to
have been a definite turnabout on pre-
vious affairs, even if those were not
as useless as the critics suggested. At
least the 300 people attending this year
(by Government invitation as usual)
Snedden ... tradesmen’s qualifications
Nossal.. . 10,000 Asians yearly
could not be accused of being tame.
They argued, whinged, hectored, orated,
lectured, debated, and waffled as any
such collection of non-specialists do on
these occasions. But in the course of
the three days they managed to cover
almost every aspect of immigration:
the problems, opportunities, and policy
possibilities it raises. And there was no
shying away from the controversial
issues. Asian immigration, so long a
completely taboo subject, not raised at
Citizenship Conventions, was the
number one topic for the 1968 meet-
ing. Not by conscious design of the
organisers, though it was said that the
Department had told the authors of
the theme papers that they should not
feel inhibited in raising it, or for that
matter any other controversial issues.
The Department was getting a little
disillusioned with the whole idea of the
Convention reflected in the decision
to turn it into a two-yearly rather than
an annual affair and it decided it
might as well let it become a sounding
board for ideas, even if this risked pro-
ducing sharp criticism and troublesome
comment.
Gustav Nossal, director of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Medical Institute, set
the “White Australia” debate off by
suggesting a program of 5000 immi-
grants from Asia each year, rapidly
escalating to 10,000, “so that by the
century’s end * a substantial body of
Asian immigrants and their descendants
could be present in Australia.”
The 300 delegates appeared a pretty
typical cross-section of the community
by political affiliation, educational
background, and occupational distribu-
tion —a collection of “opinion leaders”
as representatives of a wide range of
community organisations. If they were
in any way biased, it was in age. Only
a tiny proportion wgre under 40.
And this was, perhaps, what made it
surprising that the Convention should
on balance reflect such liberal views on
white Australia. There were, of course,
plenty of conservatives, who warned
against the dangers of reproducing in
Australia the many racial problems
which exist elsewhere in the world.
But a larger number of people who
got to their feet spoke of the need to
continue to liberalise the policy so that
the number of Asians admitted could
steadily rise. The staunch opponents of
change were very few indeed. The
inveterate Mr. Menadue of the Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association was alone in
speaking with horror of Asian immigra-
tion.
His tall, lean, greying figure speaking
oratorically of “white Australia’ 5 as the
foundation stone of Australia, the prin-
ciple which has made Australia what it
is today, looked like something from the
past. The Convention appeared to hear
him with an attitude of quaint amuse-
ment, and some of the conservatives
appeared embarrassed at having him on
“their side.”
But it was not at all clear what their
side was, because not a single speaker
criticised a single one of the liberalisa-
tions which the Government has made.
Not a single speaker called for a com-
pletely closed door to Asians; rather,
the conservatives wanted liberalisation
to be “slow and cautious,” or said they
thought “the Australian people will not
accept too many Asians.”
DLP representative John Martyr
made one of the strongest pleas for
boldness in admitting Asians and he was
followed by a variety of other speakers,
including some from the RSL, that sup-
posed hotbed of conservatism. Liberal
backbenchers also weighed in on the
side of change.
The Convention was set to critically
examine policies toward European
immigrants, with a hardhitting paper by
Dr. George Zubrzycki. He argued for
cultural pluralism, for the acceptance
of separate national communities in
Australia and the preservation of
national languages and traditions.
Heresy ten years ago, this was accepted
by a remarkable proportion of the dele-
gates, chairman Mr. Justice Kerr sum-
ming up the attitude as one of “pretty
general support.” Whereas not long
ago Citizenship Conventions were the
places where speakers called for restric-
tions on foreign-language newspapers,
the emphasis in 1968 was on ways of
mobilising the national community
groups to help their members settle


in. There were suggestions that they
be given subsidies to support social
workers, for instance.
Zubrzycki’s suggestion that immi-
grants be given special assistance in
housing over and above that given
Australian residents was not generally
accepted—though his opponents did
not say the proposal was wrong, only
that it was not politically possible.
One of Zubrzycki’s main points was
that we are not getting a desirable
occupational cross-section of European
immigrants. Professional and skilled
people are badly under-represented in
immigration from all non-British
countries. The reason lies in the diffi-
culty of getting non-British qualifica-
tions recognised and also in the com-
plete lack of adult training or
retraining schemes for producing
tradesmen and technicians here in Aus-
tralia.
Immigration Minister Snedden an-
ticipated this one in his opening
address, saying that unless progress is
made in these areas Australia will fail
in its immigration program. Despite the
Trades Unions’ stubborn resistance to
all proposals for such liberalisation,
Labor Party Deputy-Leader Lance Bar-
nard supported the others by making
a reference to “the great retraining pro-
grams which will become increasingly
necessary in Australia.” ACTU dele-
gates Albert Monk and Harold Souter
sat passively through what turned out to
be a unanimous series of speeches on
the need to provide opportunities for
immigrants to gain recognition of the
existing qualifications or gain extra
skills by education. The Canadian
scheme for retraining immigrants
which provides $35 a week basic allow-
ance plus up to S9O a week for the
family during training was cited as
something worthy of Australian emula-
tion.
There was general agreement that
native antipathy to immigrants is
now virtually non-existent and that it
has been replaced by apathy. Alan
Richardson, a psychologist, said that
the critical period in determining
whether an immigrant settled in or
started to work and save simply to go
home began after about six months in
Australia.. Before then it was most im-
portant that immigrants should be
contacted. No one seemed very sure
how this “contact” should be made.
But the general conclusion of the
Convention seems to have been that
there are no longer problems deserving
to be tackled by “immigrant policy.”
Rather, they are questions about the
sort of country Australia is to evolve
toward. They are problems of “national
policy.”
If, like other Citizenship Conven-
tions, the 1968 version was a junket to
enjoy the Canberra sun, good living in
its best hotels with the swimming-pool
glistening invitingly near the confer-
ence rooms, and a bar nearby, it man-
aged far better than its predecessors to
get with the problems of the day and
reflect a contemporary mood which
favors new national policies.
The West
Thinking huge
THE NORTH-WESTERN shoulder of
Australia should not be simply a
transition point for iron ore, solar salt,
and other basic resources, but as soon
as possible should become industrial-
ised not a remote mining centre, but
truly part of a State whose population
to date has clung to the south-western
corner. This is the Western Australian
philosophy for the Pilbara region, pro-
pounded most forcibly by the Minister
for the North West, Mr. Charles Court.
And this is behind a very recent
announcement of a $5OO million scheme
to dam rivers, co-ordinate power sup-
plies, and irrigate agricultural land in
the area. Mr. David Lilienthal 68-
year-old chairman of America’s De-
velopment and Resources Corporation,
the man who in 1933 became the first
head of the Tennessee Valley Authority
and a former head also of the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission flew
northward from Perth last week with
Mr. Court to look the area over.
Apart from this flight of two men
and their associates, the headlines were
about non-events; or perhaps it would
be more accurate to say that they were
simply well-timed and cleverly mar-
shalled events that have become focus
for a process that has been under way
for many months. The process is to
culminate within nine years, according
to current Western Australian Govern-
ment thinking, with the establishment
of a 400 mw nuclear power station.
On these estimates nuclear power could
be cheaper than conventional power by
1977, although improved design may
bring this target forward. Meanwhile,
oil-fired power stations are being con-
sidered on a stand-by basis in pre-
liminary planning.
Although Lilienthal stands at the
head of this new 1 move, much of the
groundwork has been done by British
industrialists and technocrats who have
been quietly coming to look over the
same area for some months, looking
ahead to the time when nuclear reactors
—in which Britain still leads—will be
feasible and economic.
. Despite President Johnson’s curbs,
it is likely Americans would be ready
to respond to the call for capital to
develop the Ashburton-Pilbara complex.
Because W.A.’s finances are fully com-
mitted, private capital will be sought
and Lilienthal said in Perth he felt
the chances of U.S. dollars doing the
job were “not nearly as gloomy as they
might seem at first glance.”
On the present outline, the job would
take 15 years. The iron ore groups
working the area are committed to
looking after their own heavy water
demands, and while some are helping
considerably in the capital expenditure
involved in getting water to the new
population, the ancillary industries and
their workers, expected to follow on
Lilienthal... atomic energy
the secondary development wave, have
not been catered for.
The water run-off in the area during
the current wet season is enormous and
the relatively small area (about the
size of Victoria) could yield four times
the developed water resources of the
south of the State. Seven potential dam-
sites have been “ear-marked,” although
none has been drilled or fully tested.
Two are on the Fortescue River, whose
valley the Hanwright group plans to
use to get out its iron and asbestos; two
are on the Shaw River inland from
Port Hedland, hub of the Mt. Newman,
Goldsworthy, and Leslie Salt develop-
ments; one is on the Harding River
near Roebourne-Cape Lambert, which
might serve the Cliffs complex; there is
one on the Sherlock River and one
on the Coongan River 15 miles north
of Marble Bar near Nimingarra, where
Daniel K. Ludwig’s Sentinel Mining
group is exploring.
So, on paper at least, the scheme
could serve all the existing and pros-
pective mining ventures. Whether or not
irrigated agriculture might be possible
is another thing. Already the Ashburton
has had its failures in this field. After
one good season the land has
“puddled,” with the soil structure
breaking down. But the dream of
irrigated agriculture is a recurrent one
in the West, and seems to have finally
paid off with the Ord.
Representatives of the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission have been among
the visitors to the Pilbara, and the AEC
has proved the excavating and dam-
building potential of nuclear power.
However, all this is largely window-
dressing for the ultimate aim of the
scheme—to interest capital and indus-
try in the area, to have water supplies
stabilised, and to get conventional
power stations that can be superseded
by a nuclear power plant as soon as
possible. Unveiling the plan may have
been a non-event, but it has effectively
distilled the potential of a most exciting
region, and of those who administer it.


Have you been making money in Peko,
B.H.P. and Western Mining-or have you
been too late? What should you buy now?
B.H.P.
Our portfolio clients sold B.H.P. before the big- 1961 62
decline. They were buying heavily again in June 1966 at about
$5.88, and have done well in this stock. These recommen-
dations were published also in Trendex, at the time. Having
peaked out above $l7 a couple of months ago, B.H.P. has since
been marking time. What happens now? Another run? Or a
gradual drift? The Trendex opinion is outspoken as it
usually is. Moreover, it is usually right.
Peko-Wallsend
Trendex subscribers were buyers of Peko at $2.66 in June
last year, and quite recently were buyers of Peko Options at
275, just after listing. Both of these have now had an unprece-
dented run, on enthusiasm whipped up by brokers and others.
There is no doubt about what they think Peko “ought” to do,
especially if the price of gold rises, and so forth. However, what
does market action itself, interpreted on Trendex principles,
say that the stock will actually do? Has it overshot the mark?
Western Mining
Our portfolio clients have held this stock from way back,
and Trendex subscribers have been in and out on several
occasions, to profit by the rises and avoid some of the reactions.
No matter how good a stock is, buying power eventually dries
up, when everybody has had his fill. In other words, all stocks
top out sometime. Has this happened to W.M.C.? Or is this
just a beginning? Present market action reveals the interplay
of buying power and selling pressure, and gives a clear forecast
along Trendex principles.
Investment Portfolios
The main business of this company is the management of
portfolios for investors, with emphasis on capital gain or
income, to suit individual requirements. These clients are not
traders. They wish to hold those stocks which are safe invest-
ments with a good future. They see no point in holding senile
growth stocks of the past, or weaklings of the present, with
inferior future prospects. Our clients range from investment
companies, through the superannuation funds for large com-
panies both listed and unlisted to family companies,
estates, and individuals.
Trading Profits
Both investors and traders have a desire to purchase stocks
which rise in price. The investor is looking for growth over a
period, whereas the trader usually is keen to see a good quick
price move, and does not mind selling out fast to take his profit
and watch for another opportunity.
For some time Trendex has featured not only the big Action
Table for Medium Term and Long Term Investors, but also
a weekly summary of stocks with recommended action for
Traders and Speculators. For the convenience of those trader
subscribers who wish to act on Trendex principles every day in
this fast market, in September last we introduced a Special
Daily Service. This provides positive buying and selling
recommendations for a small range of active trading stocks.
The daily Table for Thursday is published each week in
Trendex, for the information of subscribers generally. The
Table which appeared in Trendex last week is reproduced here.
Last
Traders have jumped in and out of some of these stocks a
number of times. Since September, there have been 186 com-
pleted trading transactions, most of which have shown a profit
some modest, many excellent. Subscription to the Daily
Trader Service is $lO per month for Trendex subscribers, and
$12.50 per month for others. Phone, telegram, and mail service
are available.
Gan you do better?
This organisation, whose 'primary business is portfolio
management, covers all aspects of security analysis, including
company performance and economic outlook. However in our
publication Trendex we confine our attention to the conclusions
which can be drawn from market action alone. Sometimes they
can be spectacular. If you are perfectly happy with the gain
which your portfolio has made, or if you have been doing very
well in your trading activities, you may not need our services.
Otherwise you do. Get in touch with our Head Office in
Melbourne or our Branch Office in Sydney, now. It’s later than
you thiftk.
TRENDEX & Co Pty Ltd (Inc. in Vic.)
THE LEADER IN MARKET ACTION ANALYSIS
HEAD OFFICE: PEARL ASSURANCE HOUSE, 151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, PHONE 67 1309
SYDNEY OFFICE: CENTURY HOUSE, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, PHONE: 211 1434
□ Enclosed is remittance of $25 to cover one
year’s subscription to the weekly publication
TRENDEX. I understand you will send also,
without charge, your background book “Fore-
casting Australian Stock Prices with Trendex”.
All sent, airmail in Australia; and New Zealand,
without additional charge.
□ I wish to become a subscriber to your
Special Daily Trader Service. Please send
particulars to me.
□ Please send particulars of your Investment
Portfolio Management Service. I am interested
mainly in:
(a) Longer term capital gain □
(b) Short term capital gain □
(c) Capital gain plus income □
The approximate size of the portfolio or funds
to be invested is $
TRENDEX, G.P.O. Box 763, Melbourne, Vic, 3001
NAME
ADDRESS
POSTCODE


The Japanese
in Australia
By WALLACE CROUCH
THE 378 MEMBERS of the Japanese
Society of Sydney, Nihonjinkai, are at
the moment grappling with a problem
characteristically Australian. The
society is raising $lOO,OOO to establish
comfortable clubhouse premises some-
where in the mid-city. It already has
$25,000 in the kitty, including a per-
sonal donation of $lOOO from the
Japanese Prime Minister, Mr. Eisaku
Sato, when he was in Australia several
months back. What has split Sydney
Nihonjinkai ranks, with an evenly
divided vote last time its executives
debated the question, is whether the
club should have poker machines.
The pro-machine faction comprises
mainly hard-headed businessmen who
argue that no club in an Australian
city can hope to survive financially
without the clatter of the one-armed
bandits. The anti-gambling section of
the society, its secretary, Mr. Jyoji
Akizawa, explains, complains that the
noise would shatter the tranquil atmos-
phere most members hope will prevail
in the club, with one or two rooms,
furnished Japanese style, set aside for
ikebana, tea-ceremony demonstrations,
and, more importantly, for the private
tutoring of children belonging to the
community. Certainly, there’s a certain
element of snobbery in the controversy.
The more sophisticated of the local
Japanese don’t want a club which in
any way would resemble the garish
pachinko (pinball) alleys of Japanese
cities, the addiction of working-class
men. For the Sydney club the more
sedate games of go and shoji (Japanese
chess) would suffice.
The Sydney clubhouse project is fur-
ther evidence that little by little the
Japanese community in Australia is
making its presence obvious socially as
well as economically. It is difficult to
ascertain an exact figure as to how
many Japanese are in this country
at any one time, but it is certainly
one of the most sizable and best-
organised of alien communities here,
ranging from businessmen and wool-
buyers in Sydney and Melbourne,
schoolteachers on loan here, and four
scientists attached to the CSIRO to
technicians on the big mining projects
in the North-West, pearling-industry
advisers in Toires Strait, and Mr.
Sho Noboru Takasuka, who came to
Australia 61 years ago as a boy of
*° Ul anc j 15 now Shire President
of Huntley, a town 100 miles north,
of Melbourne.
The inward and outward flow of
Japanese associated with Japanese
financial 'interests in Australia is some-
thing the Immigration Department
doesn’t talk about too readily. One
regular Australian traveller to Tokyo
says, “It’s staggering the number of un-
announced stops Qantas jets make at
Darwin these days to drop off or pick
up Japanese. These chaps don’t talk
much on the flight from Tokyo, but
one gathers they’re connected with
mining and other development projects
in the North.”
The early post-World War II return
of the Japanese to Australia was a low-
keyed dribble of an invasion, with the
new arrivals meticulously avoiding any
raking over the coals of wartime bit-
terness. They also went to extraordi-
nary lengths to rid their country of its
pre-war reputation as a producer of
shoddy goods. All that, of course, is
history. Today, the Japanese, the eco-
nomic miracle-makers of Asia, are
Australia’s best customers,
Only extreme zealots still trot out
wartime atrocity stories. For Austra-
bans, Japan has become a major tourist
lure. We are devotees of their avant
garde schools of art, film-making, and
architecture as well’as their classical
flower-arranging and judo. Thousands
of Australians study the Japanese
language at universities and night
schools. Some of us are even partial
to the Japanese culinary exports of
sukiyaki and tempura.
j n re t U rn the Japanese us
have lost their hesitancy and more are
readily identifying themselves. Some-
times, at parties or on national days,
The Sydney Japanese Society’s Christmas hall at the Trocadero is a long way from the exotic delights of Tokyo. Mr.
Rokuro Sase, left, managing director of the Japan Trade Centre, and the Centre’s PR man, Mr. Toshio Ohki, entertain
family and friends


they project themselves as an exotic
entity whose industriousness and rich
traditions we should envy. Most times,
however, they almost over-eagerly
depict themselves as maty Westernised
folk only too happy to join Australian
friends for a can of beer and a bar-
becued steak.
In the second-last week of December
the Japanese Society held its annual
Christmas party at the Trocadero. It
demonstrated just how Australianised
the local Japanese can act. Only a hand-
ful of Japanese women were in kimono',
most, like the wives of their husbands’
Australian guests, wore ball or cocktail
gowns. The dance music was cha-cha,
the food the Trocadero’s staple fare of
chicken salad and fruit salad and ice-
cream, and the floorshow a pretty tame
affair considering the exotic offerings
of Tokyo’s nightlife.
This year we can expect to see and
hear more of the Japanese community
here. It is the centenary of the start
of the Meiji era, which, with the col-
lapse of the feudal shogunate of the
Tokugawa, restored the Emperor to
the throne and set Japan on the course
of its astonishing modern development.
The Japanese in Australia, like their
countrymen at home, intend celebrating
this event in grand style > and to
indoctrinate Australians even more as
to the past achievements of their
country as well as its emergent role as
a Pacific power.
Ironically, the Meiji celebrations point
up the fact that among Japanese busi-
nessmen and traders in Australia, the
“Meiji men” (those born before 1912)
are now outnumbered by younger men
of different outlook. Less traditional,
more flexible than the “Meiji men,”
thesq younger executives are usually
university trained, more adaptable to
Australian social customs and local
methods of doing business, and certainly
less introverted. Some, for example, do
not belong to the Japanese Society,
excuse themselves from national-day
celebrations, and regard themselves
more as citizens of a modern, dynamic
world with strong opinions on every-
thing from Vietnam to the Pill. They
are the pragmatists of the Japanese
community and their personal philoso-
phies are often at odds with those of
their numerically dwindling elders.
Japanese links with Australia go back
more than three-quarters of a century.
In 1876 the colonial Government of
South Australia opened negotiations
with Japan on development of the Nor-
thern Territory, which included a
proposal for mass importation of Japa-
nese laborers. Due to the then political
turbulence in Japan, nothing came of
the plans. Twenty years later the first
Japanese consulate in Australia was
established, at Townsville. The function
of the office was mainly to keep an eye
on the welfare of Japanese pearl-
gatherers and cane-cutters in the North.
By then, however, the first Japanese
business in Australia had been set up by
the late Mr. Fusajrio Kanematsu. He
had come from Kobe in 1890 to handle
directly the purchase and shipment of
wool. In 1879 another consulate was set
up in Sydney. Major diplomatic ex-
changes between the two countries oc-
curred in the ’thirties. By the outbreak
of the Pacific War the Japanese com-
munity in Sydney numbered about 100,
mostly woolbuyers, with their focal
point the Consulate-General’s office in
the Grace Building.
The Japanese post-war return to Aus-
tralia was cautious and unobtrusive. By
the mid-’fifties the community in Syd-
ney had returned to its pre-war level,
with a gregarious little man, Mr. Shin-
suke Tanabe, doyen of the traders. Mr.
Tanabe, managing director of Mitsui &
Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., had lived in Syd-
ney for nine years from 1926 to run
Mitsui’s office and he knew his way
around. He recalls that in pre-war days
Australians treated local Japanese
politely, but often voiced fears about
Japanese military intentions. When he
left Australia in 1935, Mr. Tanabe and
his family went to London. In 1940 he
and nine other Japanese were jailed in
Brixton Prison in retaliation for the
arrest of ten Britons in Tokyo on es-
pionage charges. Mr. Tanabe was re-
patriated to Japan just before Pearl
Harbor, and at war’s end, because of
his fluent English, he served with the
temporary rank of rear-admiral in the
Imperial Japanese Navy, as chief
negotiator at the surrender of Yokosuka,
Japan’s main homeland naval base.
When he came to Sydney for a second
time, in 1956, Mr. Tanabe encountered
the tail-end of anti-Japanese hostility.
The first woolbuyers who had come in
1951 told him of trouble in getting
accommodation and of being insulted
in hotel bars. Some had found them-
selves frozen out of membership of local
golf clubs. Mr. Tanabe worked assidu-
ously to polish up the image of Sydney’s
post-war Japanese. He became president
of the revived Japan Chamber of Com-
merce and was largely instrumental in
forming the Japanese Society. For a
short while the society rented a private
house in Double Bay, mainly for lonely
Japanese bachelors, but had to close it
when no suitable manager could be
found. Signing of the 1957 Japan-Aus-
tralia Trade Pact marked the end of
local hostility, and when Mr. Tanabe—
a “Meiji man” to the last—recently
went home to Tokyo to retire to a
'quiet suburban house, aged 71, Sydney
Nihonjinkai’s members honored him
with a grand dinner.
Today the Japanese community in
Sydney numbers some 650. This does
not include about 250 Japanese wives
of Australian ex-servicemen, few of
whom have direct contact with the
community. It is predominantly a busi-
ness community. Some 70 Japanese
firms are located in the city. They
include not only the great trading
houses like Mitsui, Mitsubishi, C. Itoh
and Shoji Sumitomo but embrace a
broad spectrum of activities, textiles,
shipping, mining, petrochemicals,
fisheries, and heavy industries such as
the gigantic Ishiawajima-Harima com-
plex which has joint shipbuilding ven-
tures with BHP. Some companies have
direct telex links with their head offices
in Tokyo and Osaka. Organisationally,
there is ample scope for dialogue be-
tween Japanese businessmen and their
Australian counterparts. Besides Japan-
ese Chambers of Commerce in Sydney
(president, Mr. Shogoro Ariga of
Mitsui) and in Melbourne, there are
the Australia-Japan Business Co-opera-
tion Committee (secretary-general, Mr.
R. W. C. Anderson, in Canberra), Nan-
seikai (Textile Association), and the
Australia-Japan Trade Council, whose
director, Mr. S. W. Cramb, is expert at
unravelling the tangled threads of Aus-
tralia’s tariff policies.
The Bank of Tokyo has only a repre-
sentative in Sydney, but local Japanese
merchants hope that once an agreement
on dual taxation is worked out early
this year as forecast in the Holt-
Sato talks last October the way will
be open for Japanese banks to estab-
lish full branches here. JETRO (Japan
External Trade Organisation) main-
tains showroom centres in Sydney and
Melbourne under the managing direc-
torship of Mr. Rokuro Sase. The
activities of these centres - grow more
comprehensive yearly as emphasis in
Japanese exports to Australia broadens
from softgoods, cameras, optical equip-
ment, etc., to heavy machinery. There
is no lack of expert staff. Recently
JETRO posted a man to Sydney solely
to promote marine-craft instruments.
On a government-to-government
level, the Japanese Embassy in Can-
berra, with a recently appointed Ambas-
sador, Mr. Fumihiko Kai, and a staff
of 12, does not rate high in the Jap-
anese Foreign' Ministry’s priority list.
This is because, until now, diplomatic
exchange between Canberra and Tokyo
has not been of the volume or import-
tance of that, say, between Tokyo and
Washington or Tokyo and most South-
East Asian capitals. But, in the wake of
Mr. Sato’s visit and the concept of the
Japanese Foreign Minister, Mr. Miki,
of a Pacific Basin region embracing the
two countries, the work of the Canberra
Embassy is growing. However, the
Japanese place great importance on
their consular service in Australia. The
Japanese now have Consulates-General
in Sydney, Melbourne, and Perth, a
Consulate in Brisbane, an honorary
Consul in Adelaide and one in Broome
(W.A.). The Consul-General in Sydney,
Mr. Hiroshi Hitomi, is assisted by a
senior Consul, three specialist Consuls
(trade and indusrty, finance, culture,
and public relations), two Vice-Consuls,
and an administrative staff of 12, which
includes three Japanese wives of Aus-
tralians. Occupying the entire third
floor of Wynyard House, the Consulate-
General is Japan’s largest outside the
United States. Publicity for the Con-


sulate and for JETRO is handled by a
private body headed by veteran Syd-
ney journalist Massey Stanley.
Mr. Hitomi first came to Australia
in 1964 with a Japanese mission to
re-negotiate the trade pact. He says,
“T hellpv ->d it would take a counle of
w’eeks, buf the Australians proved such
tough bargainers I stayed four months.
I liked the country and people so much
t , r . T ~ "M
I applied for posting here. Newest
addition to Mr. Hitomi’s staff is the
senior Consul, Mr. Masao Tsukamoto,
whose previous posts included Seoul,
Djakarta, and Los Angeles. “I turned
down a posting in New York ” he says,
to come to Sydney. In the Foreign
Ministry there is an Old Australia
Hands group and they were so enthusi-
astic about it here I wanted to see for
myself. Besides, as my particular interest
is the Asian region, I wanted to look
at it from Down Under to see it
as Australians see it as well as through
the eyes of an Asian looking down
from the north.” Australia has not
disappointed Mr. Tsukamoto. His
greatest delight is to leave his Dover
Heights home at 5 a.m. nearly every
day and polish up his golf on Wool-
lahra course. To be able to play a
solitary game without the crush of
Japan’s links, any hour of the day, is
almost unbelievable.
Among the hardest-working of Syd-
ney’s Japanese is Mr. Sakae Ido, head
of the local office of the Japan
National Tourist Organisation. Some
20,000 Australians a year now visit
Japan and Mr. Ido plans many of
their tours. But the tourist traffic is
mostly one way. Last year about 6000
Japanese visited Australia, 90 percent
of them on business and for an average
stay of only three to four days. The
problem is, says Mr. Ido, that with
easing of restrictions on the amount
of currency Japanese travellers can
take out of their country having
occurred relatively recently, Japanese
tourists have had eyes only for Europe,
the U.S., and Hawaii. Nor do Austra-
lia’s wide open scenery and beaches
particularly appeal to the Japanese
aesthetic senses.
Now that the Australian Tourist
Commission has decided to establish an
office in Tokyo from February with
a soft-sell campaign, the possibility of
Australia considerably boosting its in-
take of Japanese tourists is there. Cer-
tainly next year should bring changes.
That’s when Japan Air Lines intends
introducing a direct Tokyo-Sydney jet
service. Already JAL operates a book-
ing office on the ground floor of the
Australia Hotel in Sydney, under the
regional managership of Mr. Makoto
Kamei. Mr. Kamei’s principal assis-
tant, a strikingly attractive Japanese
girl, Mrs. Tama White, of Mosman,
plays a useful role in the community.
An ex-Qantas hostess now married to
an Australian marine surveyor, Mrs.
White has a fluency in English and
a comprehensive grasp of local customs
which she uses to help Japanese wives
arrange anything from buying a gift
to organising children’s birthday
parties.
Until it locates suitable city premises
for its clubhouse, the Japanese Society
of Sydney has its headquarters in the
offices of C. Itoh, in Goldfields House,
at Circular Quay. The president is Mr.
Takeo Masuda, of Vaucluse, Itoh’s
managing director, and the secretary
Mr. Jyoji Akizawa, 29, who, with his
wife and two small children, lives in a
rented house at Northbridge. Japanese
businessmen and consular officials
posted to Sydney usually stay three to
five years; woolbuyers up to 12 years.
Senior executives tend to live in the
swankier Eastern Suburbs, Rose Bay,
Dover Heights, Elizabeth Bay, as do
consular men, while the younger execu-
tives, usually, in their twenties or thirties,
rent modest houses or flats on the lower
North Shore, Chatswood, Lane Cove,
Mosman, Northbridge.
Japanese men adapt themselves to
Sydney life quicker than their wives,
Their English is usually better. They
l 1 e C f'Y Y Van Z °
foodstuffs available, loca beer outdoo,
life, and as most of them aie golt
. ’ . , , heaDness of J et _
‘ mmnarprfwitti Tarvm
mg a j? a ™ e 1 J ,
pla£s aM
fi erce y competitiveness The
; als |, has ks own ba ° seball team
( ' nd white uniform ). When the
j| pa n e se complain, which is seldom, it
. usuall abonl hi h rentals and th ,.
costs of , u and i ng a C ar.
l n the interests of national pride, the
family auto is more likely to be a
Toyota than a Holden. Few Japanese
attempt to furnish their residences in
t p e austere fashion of their homeland,
anc j most 0 f t k e men SCO rn wearing
kimono, even when relaxing at home,
g ut urge their wives to serve them
a J a p anese meal at least once a day,
usually sushi (raw fish titbits) or
tempura (seafood coated in batter and
fried in deep fat). When they entertain
Australian friends Japanese-style, they
prefer to do so at one of three Japanese
restaurants in Sydney, the Sukiyaki
Rooms or the Nagoya at Kings Cross
or the Lotus in Ash Street. Even there,
Johnny Walker is more popular than
Suntory or sake and the dishes some-
times a blend of Japanese and Chinese
cooking.
Japanese parents with children here
s hare a common and vexing problem:
State and even private schooling here
can > t possibly equip their youngsters to
cope with the highly competitive nature
of education in Japan and the scramble
for good jobs. Most of all they fret
Left, Mr. Takeo Masuda, presi-
dent of the Sydney Japanese
Society... The big question:
should the new club have poker
machines?
Below, Mr. Rokuro Sase, right,
head of JETRO (Japan External
Trade Organisation) in Australia
entertains friends. The toasts are
in beer, not sake
Right, some Japanese still favor
the kimono for formal occasions,
but they are outnumbered by
those in ball dresses


The most famous
dictating machine
is not necessarily
the one that will
w suit you best
I
K
s
o
You can get a
2-speed portable
National executive
recorder for as
little as $66.00.
National’s 6 portable recorders wilT
do all of the essential work of a
dictating machine and record
music as well. All have built-in
speakers, earphone jacks and
remote control from mike or foot-
switch. All work off battery or
mains power and 4 have built-in
public address units. They travel
and work wherever you do. See
them at National retailers and
department stores. For a free
demonstration at your nearest
National Retailer or further infor-
mation, fill in this coupon.
NATIONAL
To HACO DISTRIBUTING AGENCIES PTY. LTD.
57-69 Anzac Parade, Kensington, N.S.W., 2033.
Name
Address..
Bulletin T557A
about their children not properly
mastering the Japanese language, which
requires at least a basic grasp of 2000
Kanji characters, 50 Hiragana, and
another 50 Katakana characters. Mr.
Toshio Ohki, 29, the personable public-
relations man at JETRO, and his wife,
Mieko, send their 12-year-old daughter,
Iku, to Rose Bay Sacred Heart Con-
vent. Mr. Ohki says his family are
“nominal Buddhists,” but he believes
that in a religious atmosphere, Christian
or otherwise, his daughter can get the
best education available in Australia in
terms of discipline and attentiveness.
Iku speaks authentic strine and won a
prize of social studies, but still her
parents go to great lengths to tutor her
in her native language.
It is the parents in Nihonjinkai who
are pressing hardest for a clubhouse
(without poker-machines, naturally).
Classes in Japanese for the community’s
children at present are conducted at
the Consulate two hours evei'y Satur-
day morning. One of the Consuls, Mr.
T. Asada, is director of the society’s
education committee, and the main
teacher is Mr. Hiromasa Mase, 29, who
is teaching the language at Cranbrook
Boys’ School, Sydney. Mr. Mase, a
graduate of Tokyo’s Keio University,
came to Australia in 1966 under a cul-
tural exchange scheme sponsored by the
Australia-Japan Business Co-operation
Committee. Mr. Mase finds that Jap-
anese students tend to be more reserved
in class, whereas Australians are more
outspoken and individualistic. But the
Japanese are generally more studious
and work harder, in extra-curricular
activities as well as in the classroom.
The Japanese Government provides
$4OOO a year for the education of Jap-
anese children in Sydney, but the
crowded, busy offices of the Consulate
are a poor substitute for a separate
classroom at the mooted clubhouse,
with teaching aids and a library of
Japanese books the society hopes to
make available.
With a penchant for organisation
which is characteristically Japanese,
Nihonjinkai is run on well-ordered lines,
with separate committees covering edu-
cation, culture, golf, recreation, tennis,
and baseball, the clubhouse project and
a women’s group which organises
classes in tea ceremony and flower ar-
rangement. Japanese companies can
nominate members of their staffs to be-
long to the society at $3 a month per
person, private fees are $2 a month
and Japanese women pay $1 a month.
Eventually, says Mr. Akizawa, Nihon-
jinkai hopes to enrol Australians as as-
sociate members. The Japanese, even
the most cosmopolitan of callers, are
mad about Australian koalas. They
organise photographic tours to sanctu-
aries to “shoot” them and buy toy rep-
licas by the scores from gift shops.
Naturally, a monthly journal the society
publishes is called “Koala Bear.”
It’s a regular round-up of gossip and
comment about the community, and
contents in the latest issue include a
message from Mr. Sato thanking Nihon-
jinkai for its flag-waving welcome to
Sydney, comments by 12-year-old Jap-
anese children here on the significance
of Mr. Sato’s Australian trip, and a
1 witty and nostalgic summary by Mr.
Tanabe of his record stay here.
In Japan, despite the terrific build-up
of trade, Australian news does not rate
much of a spread, and consequently
news media are not comprehensively
represented in Australia. Occasionally
big Japanese newspapers like “Asahi”
and “Mainichi” send staff writers to sur-
vey the Australian scene, but at present
the newsagency Jiji is the only one with
a permanent correspondent in Sydney,
Mr. A. Takahashi.
If Japan’s 100 million are lately
learning more about Australia, it’s due
to the efforts of Mr. Takanori Aeba,
34, for 16 months now Sydney corres-
pondent of NHK (Japan Broadcast-
ing Corporation). Very much one of
the new breed Japanese, Mr. Aeba is an
astute, healthily cynical radio-TV re-
porter who for two years covered the
Vietnam war and has served in such
diverse hotspots as Havana and Bang-
kok. His posting here followed separate
visits by two NHK documentary teams
who made TV programs which tended
to reflect the lotus-land aspects of the
Australian scene. During Mr. Aeba’s
stay he has been involved in two major
assignments the coverage beamed by
satellite to Japan of the Sato visit and
the Holt tragedy.
Every month he sends to Tokyo four
or five “spot news” items, and every
four to six months shoots for color TV
20min. programs. Subjects Mr. Aeba
has probed include the West’s mineral
boom, the bikini parade on Bondi
Beach, gambling in Australia (“I lost
four dollars at Randwick”), and the
need for Australia to acquire a more
sophisticated approach in promoting
tourism. After the excitement of assign-
ments in Asia and the hustle of his
hometown, Tokyo, Mr. Aeba finds life
in Australia super-relaxed and free-and-
easy. Some of this complacency, he
says, has spilled over on to the Japan-
ese business community and he him-
self is a victim of it. What he misses
most about Tokyo is intellectual discus-
sion and a sense of urgency, which he
says is absent from the mainstream of
Australian life. One thing, however, he
concedes Tokyo, the world’s biggest
city, could learn from Sydney is the
good deal it provides for its pedes-
trians no kamikaze scrambles on
crossings as in the Japanese capital.
Another comment on Australian life
came from senior Consul Mr. Masao
Tsukamoto: “I heard Australia had
many flies. I thought they’d be disgust-
ing brutes brimming with disease from
refuse dumps. I find them quite
pleasant and friendly flies.”


The Greek
nightmare
By HELEN VLACHOU
Mrs. Helen Vlachou defied the
military regime after the Greek army
coup in April and declined to publish,
under censorship, her two newspapers,
“Kathimerini” and “Messimvrini. 3 ’ In
September she was arrested and charged
with insulting the authorities and in
October she was put under house arrest.
On December 15, late at night, she
walked out of the building in which
she lived while the guard’s attention
was elsewhere. She had dyed her hair
and put on contact lenses instead of her
usual spectacles. On December 21, she
turned up in London.
Here is her story of the April coup
and its aftermath:
On the evening of April 20, the
routine bustle in the offices of the
“Kathimerini” was undisturbed by the
slightest premonition. In the newsroom
groups of teleprinters were covering un-
ending rolls of paper with information,
so that we should not miss anything
that was happening in any part of the
globe, or in space, either. Surveyor 3
was sending back to earth pictures of
the Sea of Tempests on the moon. -
We knew everything, almost. We
knew about the latest developments in
Vietnam, the closing prices of the stock
exchanges, the kind of weather the
world could expect for the next 24
hours. What we did not know was what
was happening in Athens. What we
could not even imagine was that a small
army was closing in on the capital with
instructions to surround the palace, the
radio station, the central telephone
offices, the ministries, and to take over
the city.
Because the evening was so quiet,
I left the offices for home a little after
midnight. It was not quite three o’clock
in the morning when the door of my
bedroom opened and, half in sleep, my
husband said, “Get up quickly and
dress.”
“What has happened?”
“I don’t know. Tanks and armored
cars are all over the town. Groups of
soldiers are surrounding the ministries.
It looks like a coup of some kind . .
In less | than 10 minutes we were
speeding in the Mini toward Omonia
Square, back to the “Kathimerini”
offices, and already the city had taken
a strange nightmare quality, with the
clanking of armored cars, the harsh
voices giving commands, the hooting of
angry motorists, and, most impressive
and unreal of all, the enormous
mud-covered tanks ambling heavily
through the familiar streets, taking up
positions of attack.
I remember asking idiotically: “Are
they ours . . .?” Of course they were
ours, was the answer. What else could
they be? Greek tanks with Greek offi-
cers and Greek soldiers barring the
streets, pushing away the police, terrify-
ing civilians, taking over the city of
Athens?
With difficulty we managed to get to
our offices, and when we arrived we
were greeted by confusion and stupe-
faction.
“Yes, it is the Army taking over. No,
the police are not with them . . .
nobody knows who is at the head . . .
or why it happened now . . . Kanel-
lopoulos (the Prime Minister) has been
arrested, but so have both the Papan-
dreous, father and son (the ex-Prime
Minister and his son, Andrew, now
released). There is no telephone com-
munication. The king? Nobody knows
what he is doing or where he is . .
Our idle talk was interrupted by a
young reporter, who arrived breathless
from his wanderings on foot round the
war fronts of the Athenian streets. He
brought the story of the appalling scene
of the arrest of Kanellopoulos. Hun-
dreds of people had witnessed it. The
Prime Minister’s flat was right in the
centre of residential Athens, a stone’s
throw away from Colonaki Square.
“First they blocked all the entries of
Xenokratus Street with armored cars.
Then two officers and a group of
soldiers went past the policeman who
was guarding the door, up to the second
floor, where they rang the bell. When
the door did not open they broke it
down and entered. They rushed to the
bedroom, where Mrs. Kanellopoulos
was still in bed, and told Mr. Kanel-
lopoulos to dress immediately and come
with them because he was in danger.
He did not believe them, and tried to
telephone the King. But they cut the
wires.
“It seems that then at least that
Helen Vlachou
is what Mrs. Kanellopoulos told us in
tears after they had taken him away
the Prime Minister found a pistol and
threatened to kill himself with it. But
they took it away, and once more
assured him that they were only think-
ing of his safety. Then he said, ‘All
right. I’ll come, but I will ride in my
own car.’ They pretended to agree, but
the moment he set foot on the pave-
ment they lifted him bodily and
bundled him into one of the armored
cars. By then hundreds of people were
looking out of balconies and windows
and saw and heard him shout: ‘You
are traitors! You are all traitors!’ ”
There was no more doubt. We were
falling into the hands of fanatics, of
“saviours” ,who had unleashed on us
their patriotic reflexes trained on ambi-
tion, fear, and ignorance. Our mistake
lay in having nursed the belief that they
would act only if the country seemed in
real danger, if rightly or wrongly they
had some reason to believe an imminent
and serious Communist threat to the
nation.
“Do you believe that the King has
a hand in it? . . .”
“No.”
I told them about a long talk I had
with the King up in Tatoi Palace at the
beginning of December, 1966, about five
months earlier. The King seemed per-
fectly aware of the dangers and talked
with definite distaste of the various
counsellors, military and non-military,
who insisted on an unconstitutional,
solution of the national problems. “If
any kind of dictatorship prevails . . .”
he asked himself rhetorically, “who is
going to be the first victim? Me, of
course . . .” He was' logical, modern,
and sounded sincerely anxious to keep
his royal job under the best possible
conditions for his country and himself.
A trickle of the “Messimvrini” staff,
who worked on our afternoon paper,
brought more news. They had started
from their homes in the early morning


in blissful ignorance and had somehow
managed to get past the patrols. Then
a young doctor from the first-aid station
near Omonia Square.
“They have arrested thousands,” he
told us. “And they are still at it. They
take them to the police stations, to the
pavilions down at Phaleron racecourse,
they have roped hundreds into the
football stadium. You know about the
Papandreous? The old man, it seems,
said to the soldiers, ‘lt is the fifth time
this has happened to me,’ and one of
the military said, ‘You always looked
for trouble, Mr. Prime Minister.’ ”
A good friend and colleague, A. A., a
correspondent for foreign papers, came
full of news. He brought us the first
names of supposed leaders. “They say
that Tsakalotos is in the coup, and
Grivas. Also a brigadier called Panna
. . . Pannakos?”
“Pattakos?”
“Yes, maybe. The King was seen
walking on the streets, surrounded by
generals. They say that he was trying
to get in touch with Bitsios, his coun-
sellor, but that Bitsios had disappeared.
Arnaoutis has been arrested.
“Arnaoutis! Then the King is not
with them!”
Arnaoutis, an Air Force officer, had
never left the King’s side for the past
11 years. First instructor, then aide-de-
camp, then private secretary, the hand-
some, austere-looking, 40-year-old
' officer was certainly the King’s best
friend. “Not only did they arrest him,
but they beat him up because he
resisted.”
Indulging in an orgy of self-criticism,
we outbid each other, and wondered,
once again, at the lack of information
which had allowed that Government
of ours to go to bed yesterday evening
with a complete feeling of security. In
our over-talkative Greece, why did this
disastrous miracle of absolute secrecy
have to happen?
By a quarter-past three most of our
visitors had gone, and from the radio
we heard new and more menacing
orders.
“The circulation of cars and pedes-
trians is prohibited. People should
return immediately to their homes.
After sunset anyone seen on the streets
will be shot without warning.”
Listening to the radio, our only
source of information, we were sub-
jected, for hours on end, to a sort of
symbolic musical menu composed of
military marches, demotic peasant
songs, and romantic ballads of 40 years
ago. Everything modern, any sound of
bouzouki had disappeared, we were
being dragged back to the mythical
“good old days.” It was after five
when the insipid music stopped, and
the familiar tinkling signal announced
a news bulletin:
“Tonight, at seven o’clock, at the
Athens Palace, the new Government
will be sworn. Under the former
Attorney-General Konstantinos Kollias
for Premier, General Spandiakis as
Vice-Premier. The names of the other
ministers will be announced later.”
Our attention was diverted then by
an extraordinary scene taking place in
the building across the street at the
floor opposite ours. The windows had
no curtains, the lights were all lit, and
a group of officers, policemen, and
civilians were tearing the place down.
Suddenly we remembered. These were
the offices of the “Lambrakis” organisa-
tion! That explained the reason, if not
the fury and disorder of the search.
That Left-wing youth organisation,
with Mikis Theodorakis as president,
had spelled nothing but trouble in the
past two years. But what gave the pic-
ture its frightening character was the
haste and brutality with which they
were ripping the furniture, breaking
everything in sight, hammering at the
walls, pulling down the partitions:
Working in a cloud of dust they seemed
more intent on destruction than in get-
ting hold of as many papers, files, and
documents as possible.
Suddenly, from one of the nearby
offices, a noise made us jump. It was
the shrill sound of a telephone ringing.
We lifted ours. It was working again,
communication was possible, then, in
that unreal day, we took half-automatic-
ally an unreal decision. We dialled the
only number of the Royal Palace we
had, that of the press secretary. When
the call was answered we heard our-
selves asking:
“Is His Majesty there?”
“Who is calling, please?”
“From the newspaper ‘Kathimerini.’ ”
“Just a moment.”
A moment more and I was talking
to King Constantine.
“Did you really swear in that Gov-
ernment? With Kollias. Is it true?”
The well-known young voice sounded
desperately tired: “Yes, it is true. I
could not act differently. I was left
completely alone. Completely isolated.”
I put down the telephone. The day
was finished. We crept down from the
high-level worries and started to ring
up our homes. “Is that you, Mother?
Yes, yes, we are all right.”
By Saturday, April 22, the first phase
of the coup was over. The magnificent
bluff of the cunning colonels had sent
all their enemies scurrying for safety.
By pretending to have a King in their
hand, they had cheated and won. Not
only did most of Greece, with the
official radio as the sole source of news,
believe firmly that the King was at
the head of the coup, and that the
proclamation about “imminent danger”
was true, but also, outside Greece, the
whole world was more inclined to
believe that the young King, wary of
' the coming elections, had given his
blessing to the coup, than that a group
of Greek officers had risked such a fan-
tastic gamble.
The victory was so lightning quick
and complete that less than 30 hours
after the takeover, Athens was allowed
to resume normal life. The airport at
Elliniko opened in the early hours of
Saturday morning and foreign corres-
pondents, photographers, and television
teams arrived in droves to report on a
“revolution” whose outward traces had
completely vanished during the night.
The King and the Royal Family were
back at the Palace. The Government
was non-existent, with its important
members under arrest and all the others
dazed by bitterness and shame. The
politicians of the opposition members
of the Centre Union or the Left-wing
Eda were under arrest or on the
run. The colonels had the free run of
the whole country.
Colonel George Papadopoulos, al-
ready de facto Prime Minister (with
Mr. K. Kollias a miserably incompetent
figurehead), announced he would prove
the junta had acted just in time. The
communist conspirators’ ammunition
was ready, he said, and thousands of
police uniforms were waiting in the
cellars. “We will need at least 70 trucks
to empty only one of these hiding
places,” he said. “We will call the
journalists to come and see and photo-
graph the proof of what we are say-
ing.” The story of the 70 trucks was
dutifully displayed in huge headlines
in the Greek Press, and tirelessly re-
peated for days on the radio when the
legend had been established. Not one
truck not even a wheelbarrow
was ever produced.
On Tuesday, April 24, the new
Minister of the Interior, Brigadier
Stylianos Pattakos, came to our flat
late in the evening for a friendly visit.
A short, stocky, straight-backed man,
wearing his civilian clothes like an
unfamiliar uniform, he looked pale,
dead-tired, and deliriously happy. He
sat in a corner of the sofa, slowly
sipped whisky and water, and described,
with what can only be called childish
glee, how he had fooled everybody
the King, the Government, and the
generals. For patriotic reasons of
course, for reasons of national safety.
“From what danger, exactly?” we
asked, but we got no answer. Pattakos
had a wily peasant’s trick of raising
his bushy white eyebrows, looking at
you directly with wide open eyes, and
simply not answering.
A bit later he added: “Of course, we
had to use the King’s name. We did not
want any bloodshed in the Army. We
loved the army. We wanted the King
to be out of it, if we failed, but mean-
while we had to make the other Armv
units believe that we had the King with
us. Don’t you understand? . . .”
A few days later, on the evening of
Friday, May 5, Colonel George Papa-
dopoulos was sitting on exactly the
same sofa, also sipping whisky and
water and raising the same point, only
in a more straightforward fashion. He
is a short, graceless man with an untidy
face and shifty eyes. “What do you
think you are gaining by stopping pub-
lication?” he asked. We explained. It
was not only the censorship we


Enormous tanks ambling through the familiar streets of Athens
opposed, it was the obligation to pub-
lish all the propaganda. He understood
perfectly.
“You are quite right,” he said. “I,
too, am against censorship and I will
see that it is lifted any day now. But
now you should publish. Immediately,
tomorrow, if possible. To show your
goodwill. Meanwhile I give you my
word.”
Throughout the summer the junta
would not accept that our decision not
to publish under those degrading cir-
cumstances was final, and that we would
not print newspapers both starved by
censorship and forcibly fed with propa-
ganda.
During all these months Colonel
Papadopoulos continued to give his
word of honor sometimes in gener-
ous mood, his military word of honor
that censorship would be lifted. In
last Sunday’s Athens newspapers I saw
that he is still promising. Maybe he
still finds someone to believe him.
That people did believe him was one
of the most disappointing discoveries
in those early days. It is true that until
April 21 most Greeks .loved and re-
spected the Army. The male population
of Greece had been in uniform for more
years this century than any other in
Europe, starting in 1912 and finishing
in 1947 with the disastrous Greco-
Turkish war of the ’twenties in between.
Greek soldiers had always fought on
the side of freedom, and their moment
of greatest glory was when they stood
alone in World War II against two
monstrous aggressive dictatorships.
“Why do the Americans help them?”
was a recurring question. It was
no use denying that the United
States gave the colonels at least the
same friendly treatment as did the
naive, army-loving, and communist-
hating Greeks. That developed into a
widespread belief that we were the
victims of a complex and devilish plan
devised by the CIA to put all the
Eastern Mediterranean under Ameri-
can control.
But why blame only the Americans?
What gave the colonels and the brig-
adiers, the junta and the sub-junta, the
necessary breathing space was the ex-
treme indulgence shown to them by
the Governments of even the most
democratic of the great powers. Only
the Press in London, Washington, and
Paris seemed to have understood from
the very first days what had really hap-
pened to Greece. Most foreign cor-
respondents saw through the junta after
the first encounter with it in Athens.
But they were not heeded. What the
foreign governments did, and what they
are still doing, is to subject the military
government to a kind of diplomatic
coolness and punish it with social
ostracism. The embassies have closed
their doors, no parties are given, and
national holidays are celebrated quietly.
“Let the soldiers try their hand
Maybe they will do better than all these
politicians,” was the infectious whisper
that helped the epidemic of apathy to
spread, both inside and outside Greece.
Only they are not doing better, or even
just as well or just as badly, they are
doing much worse. They have poli-
ticians’ vices without their knowledge
and experience. They have swept away
indiscriminately all the old politicians
and political parties, leaving a free hand
to the extreme Left the only group
that really thrives on underground
activity and is already doing successful
work with the young. Treading heavily
with ignorant confidence they have
shattered the delicate Cyprus situation,
bringing diplomatic relations with all
Greece’s neighbors to a crisis point.
The junta have not done well in any-
thing that is vital in Greek life. It is
not important that many people inter-
ested in what is vaguely called “big
business” are happier now than they
were before, because workers and
unions have stopped being a nuisance,,
or that most Greek shipowners are
satisfied. Satisfied or not, they have
always supported whatever government
was in power.
What is important is that the present
masters of Greece are crushing the
spirit of the country. Using a special
brand of psychological cruelty—usually
just short of the kind of brutality that
shocks foreigners they keep hundreds
of thousands in different kinds of every-
day terror terror of losing their jobs,
pensions, homes, of compromising their
friends or relatives, of damaging the
future of their children. People are
being encouraged to spy on one another,
to give away the regime’s enemies.
Very little of what is happening
today in Greece has any originality. It
has happened before. And it has
brought untold misery. And it should
be stopped. It is no use waiting
patiently, believing in good intentions
dressed up as “referendums,” unless
national and international pressure
makes it easier for the junta to-keep
promises than to break them.
Patience and philosophy will not
help King Constantine to return to his
country. He will have to fight every
inch of the way back and he knows it
and is prepared for it. One of the
few causes of satisfaction for the young
King these bitter days is that the
hesitant steps toward democracy taken
J recently by the junta had all been part
of his demands. He was not given
credit for them, but the resignation of
the three top junta men from the Army
was at his request. So was the freeing
of political prisoners, and the fixing
of a date for the “referendum” on the
new constitution.
“I have not yet seen the draft of
this new constitution,” King Constan-
tine said in Rome recently. “But I
certainly do not think that it can be
put to the vote unless it is freely dis-
cussed beforehand.”
All kinds of difficulties have been
created by the Athens Government,
while Colonel Papadopoulos pretends
that he is preparing a better climate
for the King’s return. The last un-
official delegate who arrived in Rome
from Athens brought the King—
besides the Prime Minister’s respects —
the advice to wait until “spirits simmer
down”—the spirits being, supposedly,
those unseen bogies of the junior junta,
conveniently produced whenever
Colonel Papadopoulos prefers to sit
back and let others take the blame.
Now the Greek people want the
return of the King—if only because he
is, at the moment, the only element of
stability and continuity on the poli-
tical horizon. But Papadopoulos is
far more of an anti-Royalist than the
supposed arch-enemy of the King, ex-
Premier George Papandreou, had ever
been. It is no use waiting and hoping
that he is going to let go any part of
his hard-won pow'er without a fight,
or that things will get better by them-
selves, because they will get steadily
worse if nothing is done to change them.
This is no call for revolt or violence
or melodrama. It is a simple reminder
of a well-known Greek proverb “If
you don’t cry out, you may find your-
self buried.” It is truer now than ever
before.




BUILD
\* :
w
S&EE fund i#'
uu rum;
Funds guaranteed for withdrawal
up to $lO,OOO per investor
No need to
tie up
your money
for a
fixed period
to earn at
6?
NET P.A. (current rate)
INVEST WITH THE
N.S.W.
PERMANENT’
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
There is no fixed period required for you
to earn a secured, safe 6% net p.a.
return. Withdrawals may be made easily in
full, or part, without loss or penalty of
earnings.
Make a sound investment with Australia's
leading permanent building society, with
assets of $40,000,000, and see your money
grow with safety.
No costs or charges • Starts earning from
first day • Earnings paid twice yearly, June
and December.
FREE INVESTMENT PACK GIVES YOU ALL
DETAILS—SEND YOUR COUPON NOW OR
PHONE:
Bondi Junction Branch: 5A Bronte Road. 38-5259
Chatswood Branch: 797 Pacific Highway. 419-2261
TO: N.S.W. PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.,
“Co-operation House," 125 Bathurst Street
(between Castlereagh and Pitt Streets), Sydney.
Phone 61-8721. Please mail me your new
investment Pack, without obligation to me.
Name ............
Address
AUSTRALIA’S LEADING PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY
The British way of betrayal
From
HARVEY STOCKWIN
in Singapore
AS BRITAIN prepared to pull the
props out from under the Malaysian
and Singapore English-educated elite,
the only such elite which might still
make it on the road to modernity in
Asia, the word betrayal was not pub-
licly used in Malaysia or Singapore.
Rather, heaven help us, the debated
phrase in circulation was whether or
not “an Englishman’s word is still his
bond.”
Yet betrayal it certainly was, and
the amazing thing, and perhaps the
major political mistake, is that Lee did
not portray it as such, and so appeal
to every red-blooded Englishman with
a vote, when he arrived on Saturday,
January 13, in England, the land he
instinctively respects, in the middle of
the winter he loathes. As Lee trudged
through the snow at London airport, his
thoughts may have centred on how his
erstwhile socialist comrades had let
him down, on the numerous pledges
given and as freely broken, on the fact
that only a couple of weeks earlier
Wilson had indicated no change in the
British intention to withdraw by 1975-
77. “I’m entitled to believe the word of
an English Prime Minister,” he said as
he left Singapore airport. “If this sort
of policy is what is meant by being
socialist then it almost makes me want
to stop being socialist,” he said at Lon-
don airport. By Sunday, on BBC
cameras, his disenchantment had grown
to “We’ve been too British.”
After adding up British assets in
Singapore, Lee said “. . . and you chuck
it all away, just like that. No wonder
the economy is in a mess; if that’s
economics, God bless you!” More
soberly, Lee pointed up for the BBC
interviewer Defence Minister Healey’s
contention that fast withdrawal would
mean spending £5OO to save £100;
that under the Malaysia Agreement
the naval base would be his for free (he
valued it at £7OO million); he stressed
that he couldn’t allow Britain to aban-
don his security advantages and keep
her economic ones, that the Japanese
would step in to fill the vacuum, hinted
at sterling reprisals. Off the record, he
gave vent to his pentup feelings about
his erstwhile comrades, but on the
record he said, “We are friends of yours
and we want to continue to be friends
alas, what can we do?”
To his self-imposed question, many
competent observers would already ans-
wer that he should have kept up a
strong line rather than backing down
from it, that he should have risked all
in appealing both to force and all the
Conservatives in Britain, that he should
have written off his old Left-wing
friends once and for all. Something
more like “I want to know whether I
come here as a friend, or a non-
country,” would have made more im-
pact than fatuous comments about Wil-
son’s word, now at a particularly siz-
able discount in any case, or being or
not being a socialist.
I like to think Lee, faced as he was
with a British Government which in
Lord Birkenhead’s immortal words was
“taking one leap in the dark, looking
behind and taking another,” may have
caught a faint ironic echo from his
own words last November about “how
the Americans, unlike the British when
they grind the organ, expect the mon-
key to perform. I’m not saying the
British don’t grind the organ, but it is
done with a great deal more finesse, a
great deal more feeling for people’s
sensitivities, for the dignity of the
human being and I would say more
abiding relationships . . .” Lee was
amidst the London snow because, like
his ANZAC and Malaysian counter-
parts, he failed to anticipate, and make
allowances for, Britain retreating with
dishonor, persevering with expediency,
all with little finesse and even less feel-
ing.
Consider the facts. The Malaysians
and Singaporeans had accepted the set-
ting of the mid-’seventies as the target
date for British withdrawal in the
middle of last year with good grace.
They were promised that no specific
date would be mentioned lest their
potential enemies’ options be unduly
increased. They were rather miffed
when the 1975 deadline emerged from
a Heath-Wilson House of Commons
exchange.
They were firmly and emphatically
reassured that there would be no fur-
ther changes in the timetable. Around
two months ago British plans were
circulated to their allies indicating the
proposed withdrawal stage by stage.
On top of all this, in Melbourne for
Holt’s funeral, while Wilson was not
so unequivocal in his pledges, he none-
theless assured Lee that he would see
him in London before any unspecified
changes were made. Wilson said he
would see Lee after visiting LBJ in
Washington in February. Lee replied
that he did not like the English winter
and suggested April. It was agreed,
however, that these pre-consultations
would take place late February, early
March at the latest.
When Lee arrived in London he was
faced with a situation, rare in politics,
when, since to be conciliatory would
achieve nothing, a daring course might
be the best one in the hope of achieving
something. Lee simply didn’t or, be-
cause of his Anglophilia, couldn’t do
that. Had Lee obtained a delay of with-
drawal until the end of 1972 his mod-
eration might have been justified. By
then the Conservatives would be re-
turned, and the residual British
presence, by then withdrawn into the
Changi airfield perimeter, could be re-
tained? A risk, undoubtedly, but quite
a good one measured against the risks
attendant upon a precipitate with-
drawal. Maybe it could have been
achieved if Australia-New Zealand-
Singapore - Malaysia co - operation
had been maintained during the week
of the Thomson visit. It wasn’t. All Lee
by himself got was nine months. If the
Tories come in any time during 1971
there will be precious little left to
salvage.
The Malaysians quickly learnt, once
Thomson got to Kuala Lumpur, that
he had hardly come to consult at all,
that it was Malacca out 1969, Singa-
pore out March, 1971. The devastat-
ing implications were clear. Nothing
was sacred. Fiji, Hong Kong, Brunei,
all were expendable, the Malaysians
could see that. Once again the Anglo-
philia. Instead of bitterness, officials
marvelled at British ruthlessness, how
everything was being subordinated to
economic cuts and European entry, in
the realisation that a 300-year-old
world role was being consciously ended.
There was realism, too. Crucially it
had already been calculated that the
Anglo-Malaysian Defence Treaty would
soon become “virtually meaningless,”
that the British ideas on a strategic
reserve in the U.K. essentially brushed
aside the mutual consultations en-
shrined in the Treaty. SEATO was
evidently, in Mr. Thomson’s descrip-
tion, “stretchable.” With little hope
of changing the British mind, only a
limited faith that Washington might
succeed where all others failed, the
Malaysians were publicly disappointed
and concerned, privately annoyed and
upset. In Singapore, Mr. Thomson
already had reason to believe they were
militant as well. Between the British
and Singapore delegations it was a
tough, not to say torrid, session. Mr.
Thomson lost no time inviting Lee
to London.
Later a Singapore Minister was to
wonder if this was a classic “divide
and rule” ploy. Perhaps, just supposing
London was itself that unflurried at
this stage of the game. The point
was that Malaysia and Singapore had
agreed, for once, to act in unison, to
take no action without consulting each
other. But Lee had to give a straight-
forward “yes” or “no” to Thomson.
Having said “yes,” Foreign Minister
Rajaratnam evidently phoned Deputy
Prime Minister Tun Razak in Kuala
Lumpur to explain the dilemma they
had been placed in, the answer they
had given.
One reason for the relatively mute
Malaysian reaction was the fact that
Kuala Lumpur was deeply involved
welcoming and fussing over President
Marcos of the Philippines. Malaysians,
particularly Malays, love these elab-
orate ceremonial occasions and carry
Below: Tunku Abdul Rahman was busy
entertaining President Marcos of the
Philippines
Right: Mr. Lee Kuan Yew seemed a
good deal more cheerful at the door
of No. 10 Downing Street than Mr.
Harold Wilson or Mr. George Thomson
them off with great elan and dash.
The sight of the stately royal procession
taking the Malaysian King and Marcos
into town was very different from the
motorcade which took Japan’s Sato
into Manila two months previously,
weaving past the traffic and bumping
over the potholes—so much so that they
say Sato decided on Japanese aid for
road-building immediately. This con-
trast, the Malaysian orderliness, on the
other hand—this was the “peace and
order” Filipinos dream about, and from
under which the British were hurriedly
pulling a significant prop.
In Singapore, meanwhile, Lee and
Thomson met the Press, producing the
bombshell of Lee’s visit to London. Dis-
closing that Goh Keng Swee had also
been in touch with Tun Razak, Lee
could not resist, adding “even though
President Marcos is occupying a lot
of the time and attention of Malaysian
Ministers, but I think this is more im-
portant than matters connected with
ASEAN.”
Rational? Reasonable? Certainly. An
objective assessment? But, as always,
objective assessments in Asia as else-
where must encompass subjective
reality. Quite apart from Malaysians
not wanting Lee to tell them what
is, or is not, important the Malay
leaders particularly would resent what
they would regard as a tilt at their
guest. The next morning, with Marcos
at his side, the Tunku renounced any
idea of going to London, and sounded
off at Lee, “who only phones me when
he is in trouble,” while at the same
time underlining the unhappy truth
that the cupboard of Malaysian-Singa-
pore co-operation is singularly bereft
of goodies.
Since by this little episode the free-
dom of movement of Messrs. Holyoake
and Gorton was curtailed, it is as well
to get it all straight. Undoubtedly the
Tunku had several motives for taking
the line he did. Sensing the British
were disposing not proposing, he almost
certainly saw no point in kicking up
rough, which style of politicking is not
his in any case. No less Anglophile
than Lee, but in a very different way,
he was restrained both by his sympathy
for Britain’s economic plight as well as
by the thought that to go and to fail
would create the anti-British political
feelings he disdains and dislikes.
Nonetheless, Filipino-Singapore re-
lations come within the scope of Aus-
tralia’s national interest. Lee and Mar-
cos are currently engaged in a sneering
match. Lee referred to the Philippines
as a “client State” of the U.S., which
many Filipinos admit as true but resent
others saying it. Marcos sneered back
that Lee, should Vietnam fail, would
have to balance on an interesting tight-


Any
agent
knows.
the secret of
good uniforms
is in the fabric
... Cesarella.
You've seen them, the girls that look like
they have been playing football in their
uniforms—That Company did not specify
Cesarella when they ordered! Caesar
Fabrics created Cesarella specially for
uniforms. Its a miracle blend of beauty
and science. Soft, silky, lustrous, yet in-
credibly easycare. No need to dry-clean
Cesarella (thanks to Toray Tctoron)
Easily laundered, it drip dries overnight
to original crease free beauty. Holds
pleats permanently. Perfect for today's
styles and fashion trend in uniforms. Your
girls will look better, feel better and work
better! Your Uniform Supplier or Caesar
Fabrics Ltd. will show you the wide range
of colours, help you select the style.
Those uniforms you've admired at the big
Banks and Insurance Offices... Cesarella.
Now that you know the secret, please
spread it around . . .
Cesarella is best for uniforms.
F|“o pa IT TETORON"
65X FIBRE 35X viscose
MADE
FROM
Phone now: CAESAR FABRICS LTD.
Sydney, 29.2051 Melbourne, 42.1943 Brisbane, 91.6466
Perth, 21.5488 Adelaide. 53.1686 Launceston, 2.1867
Newcastle 23.524.
rope “he might fall off.” Filipino
sources assert Marcos put out feelers to
visit Singapore on his current ASEAN
tour and was rejected. Singapore
sources, equally reliable, insist no such
feelers were ever received and that
they would have responded to them.
Undoubtedly, Lee still hoped, after
the Tunku rebuttal, that Gorton and
Holyoake would accompany him, for-
getting that their respective foreign
affairs advisers would now calculate
that to go would cause the Tunku to
lose face, the Malaysians to be annoyed.
Singapore felt let down once again
when both decided not ter do so, and
there is a feeling that, rather than go
truculently to London in the hope of
“bringing a blush to even Mr. Wilson’s
cheeks,” as one observer put it, they
preferred to stay at home so as to avoid
British counter-pressure for more
ANZAC effort. New Zealand’s Euro-
pean worries are appreciated, Aus-
tralia’s domestic political preoccupa-
tions recognised. An edge of annoyance
will therefore have to be removed.
Similarly, in Kuala Lumpur, there is
retrospective feeling against Australia
and New Zealand (not to mention,
quite unjustifiably, Singapore) for
“dragging their feet” on the Tunku’s
proposal for a five-power conference
(U.K., Australia, New Zealand,
Malaysia, Singapore) to sort out future
defence arrangements. No doubt the
Tunku proposed the conference on the
instinctive feeling that it should bind
the British before they further unbound
themselves from the area.
Believe it or not, in a week of
shocks not the least was to hear a
top-ranking Asian politician point out
to me that this British Cabinet has a
much higher average IQ level than
most, if not all, of its predecessors. More
Anglophilia? Maybe. The worship of
first-class honors degrees is a common
complaint, not least in Singapore.
For Singapore, one important lesson
therefore is that Lee should have borne
in mind the succinct verdict on Wilson
by a real socialist comrade, the late
Nye Bevan: “All facts, no bloody
vision.” What is the use of believing
a politician’s promises for faraway
lands if you know he has not got the
insight or the world view to sustain
them?
The Singapore leaders woke up too
late to the fact that the Labor Party’s
security was such a prime concern that
they could be thrown to the wolves
to serve it. Not that all is already lost.
Far from it. But a prior condition for
Singapore’s security and survival is
that Lee and company should show
more feel for local relationships, should
think more about neighborly dignity
and sensitivity—the very qualities Lee
saw last November in the British.
On the Malaysian side, to the extent
that perennial anti-Lee Kuan Yew pas-
sion played a part in these proceedings,
there is little to be said in expiation.
One hopes it was a small part; one
fears it was too large. Tun Razak after
all belatedly welcomes the joint air
defence system Lee wrung out of the
British at the last moment. One may
ask what further concessions might
have to have been made if Razak (not
to mention Gorton and Holyoake) had
gone to London as well. He didn’t,
and it is important to note that Razak’s
loyalty to the Tunku was a major
factor in this as much as the Marcos
visit may have prevented him com-
municating Lee’s decision to the Tunku.
Top Singapore sources discount any
notion that Alliance leaders’ relatively
mute reaction last week was governed
in any way by thought of early British
withdrawal creating such economic dif-
ficulties for Lee that he would have
to'come begging for a remerger. Under-
standably, there were those in Kuala
Lumpur to whom the thought occurred.
The whole crisis demonstrated once
again the Alliance lack of urgency, dis-
like of politically rough-housing it, and
general shortsightedness. After all, at a
time when Malaysia’s military over-
stretch in Sabah and Sarawak was high-
lighted by British withdrawal Kuala
Lumpur sources were reported as admit-
ting this the Malaysians listened to
Marcos’ demagoguery on regional co-
operation without extracting a public
commitment from him to abandon the
Philippines’ claim to Sabah in the
regional co-operative cause. It is in-
credible in more ways than one that
the Alliance leadership, knowing full
well that time is needed to work out
enduring relationships with their peren-
nially unstable neighbors, Indonesia and
the Philippines, did not press the British
harder to give them such time.
Finally, what about Australia? First
and last a more intimate understanding
of what gives close to home is utterly
essential. Just as this crisis will call for
a reassessment of Australia’s role, SO'
also the crisis represents a missed oppor-
tunity. On one hand, bleats from Can-
berra that “we can’t fill the vacuum,’’
whether right or wrong, will only fur-
ther increase the suspicion dawning in
Kuala Lumpur and Singapore that the
obtaining and retaining of the American
protection is both too much an object
of Australian foreign policy, as well as
a reason why Australia doesn’t bother
enough, in the words of one impartial
observer, “to get up off our tails and
show we mean business.” “You do
really rely on us too much in Asia, don't
you?” one top American diplomat said
to me recently.
As Lee trudged through the snow at
London airport he ought to have caught
an echo of what the late Harold Holt
said there on his arrival last June.
Asked whether British and Australian
interests would increasingly diverge, he
movingly, if too diplomatically, replied
that he was born in a generation brought
up in the belief that they would not.
Regional withdrawal crisis, January,
1968. Verdict? As for individuals so
for nations: interests continually diverge
and it takes continual creative effort,
rather than last-minute aeroplane flights,
to bring them closer together.


OVERSEAS
Is the price of loyalty
to Wilson too high?
DUE BACK home after his three-day
visit to Moscow this week to sound
out Mr. Kosygin on Vietnam peace
prospects preparatory to a meeting with
Mr. Johnson in a fortnight, Britain’s
Harold Wilson was facing a grim situa-
tion, with both his own future and
that of his Party in doubt. In the
present crisis of confidence, with morale
ebbing fast, Labor MPs are bitterly-
divided over Party discipline.
For the first time since he took over
in 1963, Mr. Wilson’s leadership is
being openly questioned. His two lack-
lustre speeches on economy measures
last week have accentuated doubts
which had been growing since the
draconian measures of July, 1966. The
row over discipline has come as rein-
forcement to these doubts about the
Prime Minister’s authority and his
ability to take the Government success-
fully over the hurdles facing it: the
Chancellor’s “harsh” budget, incomes
policy, and the coming by-elections and
local elections.
The call on Friday by Mr. Reginald
Paget, Labor MP for Northampton, for
Mr. Wilson to resign may have little
more significance in itself than Sir
Harry Legge-Bourke’s similar call on
Mr. Macmillan in 1962. Mr. Paget is
an unrepresentative figure and has for
long been embittered about Mr. Wilson.
But what he has blurted out in public
some of his colleagues feel privately.
Their attitude is essentially a nega-
tive gesture of despair. Labor MPs have
no agreed successor in mind. Mr. Roy
Jenkins has won good opinions on the
way he has come through his first
ordeal as Chancellor, but few MPs
see him as an immediate candidate for
the leadership.
Mr. James Callaghan is probably still
the likeliest candidate around whom a
consensus might later form, but for
the present devaluation has tarnished
his standing.
Some Conservative front-benchers
regard Mr. Ray Gunter, the Minister
of Labor, as the best Prime Minister
Labor has. They appreciate his robust
attitude to trade unions and workers.
But Mr. Gunter would find almost no
takers among his Labor colleagues.
Anyway, Labor MPs know perfectly
well that any change must be the result
of a Cabinet agreement, which at
present is not in prospect.
But the sudden rush of doubt about
Mr. Wilson’s leadership is there. It
was sparked off less by last week’s cut-
backs package itself than by his two
speeches commending it, one upstairs
to the Party and the other downstairs
in the House.
Never has the Prime Minister been
so lacking in bounce. All the spark and
jauntiness had gone out of him. In the
House, MPs on both sides were openly
talking and even leaving the Chamber,
not as a demonstration but out of
tedium, while the Prime Minister
droned on, piling up his parentheses
like Chinese boxes.
This unusual loss of touch brought
out sympathy for him in unsuspected
quarters. Indeed, MPs were ready to
concede that the Prime Minister was in
a very unhappy position: many of them
give him credit for believing in the
policies he has had to jettison, from
the parity of the pound to the East of
Suez posture.
He had to brave these failures in the
face of the Opposition, and eat so many
of the words that they threw at him
“eyeball to eyeball” across the floor of
the House, that it must have been a
grievous blow to his self-confidence.
At the same time and this, too, is
to his credit the Prime Minister had
to hurt and dismay many of his old
admirers, a thing he hates to do.
Last week brought a sudden nostalgia
for Mr. Gaitskell’s style of leadership,
particularly among those who admired
his belief that you should fight issues
out and not, like an illusionist, try to
make them disappear.
In their dismay at Mr. Wilson’s grey
performances last week, they fell to
deploring the tenderness shown toward
those who abstained in the vote, and to
questioning the wisdom of taking two
bites at the cherry, one now and one
reserved for the Budget.
Left-wingers have accepted the two-
bite strategy on the assumption that it
really was adopted for fear of causing
too much deflation while unemploy-
ment was still high and the boom in
exports not yet ready to go.
At present the real bitterness is
centred on the discipline issue. Anger
at seeing their colleagues “getting
away” with it with having abstained
during the vote of confidence on the
Government’s economy measures as 25
Labor MPs did is not restricted to
Right-wingers Mr. Carol Johnson and
Mr. George Jeger, who themselves
abstained on Thursday in protest at
their colleagues’ abstentions going un-
punished, or to young trade unionist
hardliners like Mr. Albert Murray or
Mr. Wellbeloved.
Many others, including members of
the radical Right, feel strongly that
there is an overwhelming case for the
reimposition of standing orders and
sanctions. Some of these, who are
among those most anxious for a liberal,
modern approach to discipline, none-
Despite the crisis building around him and the economic cuts, Mr. Wilson was a
good enough husband not to forget his wife’s 52nd birthday and take her to lunch


theless feel the time for stricter disci-
pline has come, because for the first
time they see a chance to solve Britain’s
endemic crisis, win the next election,
and thus get an opportunity to recon-
struct society and its institutions.
They are exasperated that this oppor-
tunity is being thrown away because
a handful of Left-wingers, most of
whom they have no wish to see ex-
cluded from the Party, have not the
guts and self-discipline, as they see it,
to see these next nine months through.
So even those who by temperament
are inclined to support Mr. John Silkin,
the Chief Whip, are inclined to say
that he must go unless, that is, he
is willing to reverse his declared atti-
tude. As a punishment, Silkin has
ordered the 25 rebels not to attend any
more meetings of the Parliamentary
Labor Party.
Whether a solution could be found
along the lines of Mr. Douglas Hough-
ton’s suggestion that rebellious MPs
should be suspended for six months
for cooling off—this week may show.
What is certain is that the MPs who
are calling for tougher discipline mean
to.get their way.
The curious fact that they have to
face is that many of the abstainers are
among the Prime Minister’s residual
defenders, whereas some of those who
are voting loyally for him are begin-
ning to feel the need to be rid of him.
Some Labor MPs feel that one man
who may be able to help to resolve
this dangerous situation is Mr. Richard
Crossman. He enjoys good relations
with the Prime Minister, he is iden-
tified with Mr. Silkin in his free-
discipline policy, but he is widely re-
garded these days as having the good
of the Party at heart, even though his
view of what that is may undergo
change. He could become the key man
in the gathering crisis.
U.S. Presidency
The big top and the political circus
By ANTHONY HOWARD, in Washington
THE MOST REVEALING moment
during the President’s State of the
Union Message came in Mr. Johnson’s
penultimate sentence. Leaning over
the lectern with his hair freshly
permed and his chin thrust forward in
a passable imitation of Franklin D.
Roosevelt LBJ suddenly attempted
just the kind of rousing statement
that Presidents are always supposed to
be able to bring off: “If ever,” he
cried defiantly, “there was a time to
know the pride, excitement, and hope
of being an American, it is this time.”
A roar of applause, a crash of
cheers, a stamping of boots? Nothing
of the sort. Indeed, to judge from the
sample of faces available on the House
floor in the Capitol, the whole nation
at that moment must have felt nothing
but squirming embarrassment. Un-
wittingly the President has contrived
to remind everyone of the single, most
dangerous threat that faces him in his
re-election campaign this year. What-
ever he may be, Lyndon Johnson is
not, and never will be, an authentic
or convincing national leader.
It is ceratinly not for want of try-
ing. The orchestration before this
year’s annual American equivalent of
the speech from the Throne was more
elaborate than ever before. For days
the nation had been regaled with
stories of an embattled but undaunted
president wrestling with the trials and
tribulations of the free world. It is hard
to imagine any situation being more
carefully set up in order to encourage
a collective act of contrition on the
part of the American people over any
harsh or unkind thought they may
ever have harbored about so plainly
an exceptional and hard-working
public servant.
If the attempt did not entirely
succeed and the popular reaction to
both the President’s personal perform-
ance and policy proposals is probably
most charitably described as lukewarm
the reason, it seems to me, may well
lie in Mr. Johnson’s own approach to
his job. It is, of course, a difficult job
in fact, perhaps a uniquely compli-
cated one. For the occupant of the
White House is required to be at one
and the same time both Party Leader
and national spokesman. Perhaps these
roles need not be contradictory, but
Lyndon Johnson has certainly never
succeeded in reconciling them. Last
week it may well have been shrewd
defensive politics to try to divert
the nation’s attention from the war
abroad against the Viet Cong to the
war on crime at home. But it is hard
to see it as responsible national leader-
ship.
The truth, I believe, is that LBJ has
always viewed politics as a. kind of
vast tent, a tent into which, in election
year especially, the object is to get
as many people as possible. This
essentially Texan big-top view of
democracy necessarily leads to fight-
ing on safe, rather than dangerous,
issues: a slap-down for the hippies, the
promise of a firm smack by the police
at rioters rather than any renewed call
for fair housing legislation or a sum-
mons to try to reinvigorate the poverty
program.
In many ways, it is essentially a
parliamentary approach to the Presi-
dency and in the legislative context
it is only fair to say that Lyndon John-
son has enjoyed some considerable
triumphs: even in the past 12 months
of his political affliction, following his
rebuff at the hands of the voters in
the mid-term elections, his record of
getting Bills through Congress compares
very favorably with that of his immedi-
ate predecessors. Revealingly, even his
low point last year of getting 47 percent
of his legislative requests fulfilled
almost exactly equals President Ken-
nedy’s top score of 48 percent in the
first of his three years in office.
Yet the snag for Mr. Johnson is that
the American people have never been
content to regard the White House as
simply a political headquarters, a man-
sion. of smoke-filled rooms. In a very
real sense, an American President is
also supposed to be the incarnation of
the people, to embody in his own per-
son the aspirations and ideals of the
nation, and it is this that LBJ has
never been able to do.
Four years ago that did not matter.
For one thing, the nation was still liv-
ing in the sentimental afterglow of the
Kennedy era, and for another, what-
ever Johnson failed to symbolise faded
into insignificance beside what Barry
Goldwater only too unmistakably did.
Conceivably, if Richard Nixon
eventually turns out to be his opponent,
LBJ may be as lucky again. But those
who have already written off this year’s
election as an exercise in ennui, in
which no one will care about either the
candidates or the issues, may well be
underrating the almost-tribal need that
the Presidency answers in the American
character.
Certainly, it is hard to believe it is
a coincidence that in both the Demo-
cratic and Republican Parties there
should not be obvious signs of a yearn-
ing after two romantic potential
nominees who, whatever else they have
going against them, represent the polar
opposite to Lyndon Johnson in terms
of political leadership.
There are more differences than simi-
larities between Democratic Bobby
Johnson with his new Defence Secre-
tary. Clark Clifford, an intimate adviser
to the White House since Truman’s
term


Kennedy and Republican Nelson Rocke-
feller, but they share at least one
quality. Rightly or wrongly, the public
sees in them men who have the ability
to call the nation to action, the capacity
to achieve great purposes rather than
small goals. Neither may end up by
getting anywhere near the nominations
of their respective Parties, but their
simultaneous emergence as even national
rival candidates next November tells
its own tale about LBJ’s own essential
weakness as a national leader.
In the President’s place I would cer-
tainly sleep a great deal more easily
after the beginning of April, when both
Kennedy and Rockefeller will have had
to make their intentions about the pri-
maries finally clear and in the case
of Rockefeller I am by no means sure
that I should feel really secure until
after next August’s Republican Con-
vention.
The Pentagon
Distinctly hawkish
PRESIDENT JOHNSON’S appoint-
ment of his old friend Clark Clifford to
succeed Mr. McNamara as Secretary
of Defence is already causing a flutter
among the Washington doves. There is
no doubt that Clifford is distinctly
hawkish. When he returned to Wash-
ington last July from his tour of Asia,
Australia, and New Zealand, drumming
up more troops from American allies,
he declared publicly: “This is incor-
rectly described as the Vietnam War. It
should be called the War of South-East
Asia.. For that is what our Allies think
is at stake.”
He opposed Johnson’s 37-day bomb-
ing pause in January, 1966 and
later collected a good deal of credit
from Johnson for having done so.
Even so, it would be unwise to
assume that his appointment is clear
proof that Mr. Johnson is going to step
up the war. The President has been
described as “a man who does one
thing on the table with his hands, and
another under the table with his feet.”
And if he wanted to change direction
on the war, Clifford is just the sort of
man he might choose to help him do it.
Perhaps his appeal for Johnson is
primarily that until now he has never
allowed himself to be bought. He was
offered the Attorney-Generalship when
Robert Kennedy stepped down in 1964,
but he refused, and has never held a
paid Government job since leaving the
White House when Harry Truman went
out of office in 1952.
What has now made him change his
mind? Perhaps Clifford himself has
given one clue. The offer from the
President was, he said, in many ways
“more attractive” because of “the diffi-
culties of the Vietnam War.” If Clif-
ford saw the war ending soon in nego-
tiations, most of Washington believes
that he would have held out for the one
job on which his heart has always been
said to be set: Secretary of State.
His decision to settle now for the
Pentagon is one of the points that is
causing the doves concern. The “New
York Times” describes the new appoint-
ment as “No comfort for the many who
had hoped to see a shift in Vietnam
toward de-escalation and negotiation.”
South Vietnam
Crowded off stage
SOUTH VIETNAM has now taken a
more hawkish stand than Washington
on all the issues of the war that are
likely to be important in 1968. Saigon’s
position seems to be that even talk
about negotiations is dangerous and
that the safest course is to increase the
pace of the war.
While Washington is still trying to
elucidate the North Vietnamese Foreign
Minister’s recent talks offer, Saigon has
already termed its conditions “absurd”
and virtually written it off as propa-
ganda. And just when Washington
seemed to be trying to resolve the
Cambodian problem by diplomacy,
Saigon has repeated its claim to the
“right of pursuit.” It has also disre-
garded the efforts of the Chester Bowles
mission to strengthen the International
Control Commission in Cambodia.
Instead it has revived an old pro-
posal of its own for an international
police force, although this was turned
down by Prince Sihanouk in 1964.
While Washington is prepared to
theorise about how the National Libera-
tion Front, the political arm of the Viet
Cong, may be brought into any eventual
South Vietnamese settlement, Saigon
refuses to recognise any Front members
except those who surrender.
While Washington is at least pre-
pared to weigh the arguments for and
against an increased war, Saigon is
convinced that if it cannot have peace
on its own terms “heavier pressure”
must be applied. This can only mean
expansion of the land war or more
indiscriminate bombing of the North.
This toughening of South Vietnam’s
position was most dramatically ex-
pressed in a speech by President Thieu
last week which surprised even Govern-
ment officials by its outspokenness.
Undoubtedly a major reason for it,
as the speech made clear, is the grow-
ing Vietnamese fear that a solution to
the war is going to be forced down
their throats. Vietnamese pride has
always been hurt by the way' in which
almost every scenario for negotiations
so far devised has given Saigon little
better than a walking-on part. In recent
weeks, the Vietnamese feel they have
been crowded off the stage altogether.
China
Further feuding
THE CHINESE are at each other’s,
throats again. Not so many of them
and not with the same urge to kill as
last summer. But since December the
familiar phenomenon of factional fight-
ing and local “civil wars” has been
cropping up all over the country. The
violence appears to be worst in the
south-west; two other serious trouble
spots are Canton and Wuhan.
The reasons for the renewed unrest
are the same as before: mainly struggles
for power among rival local factions.
The Army is still supposed to be mak-
ing peace among the competing groups
and putting them together in “three-
way alliances” of Party cadres, young
revolutionaries, and soldiers. New alli-
ances are heralded in the Chinese
papers every day; the latest major one
is a provincial revolutionary committee
in Kiangsi. But most of the alliances
seem to be fragile affairs brought about
by papering over disputes rather than
resolving them. The result is that the
fanfare has hardly subsided before the
new allies are at war again.
Although many of the battles are
clearly political contests for control of
a factory, a county, or even a. city,
many others are only latter-day expres-
sions of long-standing feuds. According
to refugee evidence, old hatreds be-
tween clans or neighboring villages that
were pent up under rigid Party controls
are now breaking out into the open
with an intensity that comes of years
of suppression.
Before the cultural revolution, the
Communists appeared to have trans-
formed Chinese society in a truly
significant way by eliminating or at
least limiting what sociologists call par-
ticularist loyalties to family, clan,
village, or region and substituting a
larger loyalty to the nation and the
Communist Party. But under the stress
of the past year the Chinese seem to
have reverted to their old pre-
communist certainties. So Mao Tse
Tung’s campaign to generate a national
revolutionary spirit may well turn out
to have had precisely the opposite
effect.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
A welcome field for action
on small business
SMALL BUSINESS looks to be an
area where there is need for extra
Government activity and the Common-
wealth Department of Trade and In-
dustry has announced it is investigating
ways in which it can help small
business. The Department’s Office of
Secondary Industry is not yet sure
what sort of activity is most important.
Following a report by the Manufactur-
ing Industry Advisory Council, it has
put one senior third division officer
on to an exploratory survey of what
is already being done and what appears
to be needed, so that the Department
may be able to fill gaps.
One of the obvious areas where gaps
are likely to be found is in finance.
Our trading banks are traditionally
very cautious in their lending policies,
making loans more on the basis of the
.security which can be offered than on
the prospective profitability or sound-
ness of the investment proposal put to
them. Small and growing businesses
can therefore get very little satisfaction
from trading banks.
The Commonwealth Development
Bank (a subsidiary of the Common-
wealth Banking Corporation) was in-
tended to help overcome the problem.
It has a charter which specifically
directs it to grant loans on the basis
-of soundness of the projects for which
they are intended. It is to provide
money for rural industry and for the
development of industry, “particularly
■small undertakings.” But the bank
has operated on a very modest scale
since its establishment in 1960 and
the political pressure has constantly
been for it to find money for farmers.
Not surprisingly, there has been rather
little left over for secondary industry.
Last year, for instance, of the total
s47m. loans approved, only $7.4m.
were for industry, and only a propor-
tion of that went to small businesses.
It is estimated that one-third of
manufacturing production emanates
from small enterprises, if a factory em-
ploying fewer than 50 people is desig-
nated as small. Some ssm. or so of
development loan finance for a sector
of the economy which produces to the
tune of s2ooom. a year and invests
possibly ssoom. in capital equipment
is obviously chickenfeed.
The Department of Trade might
well find that it is necessary to
recommend to the Government the
separation of the rural and industrial
parts of the Commonwealth Develop-
ment Bank. While the two are com-
bined it seems inevitable that the in-
dustrial sector will be neglected.
Farmers are simply far more com-
petent as lobbyists, or should we say
in log-rolling. The creation of a
separate industrial development bank
might be needed to give industry a go.
Another area in which small busi-
nesses need assistance is in management
education. New management techniques
are just as profitably applied in small
concerns as in large ones. The Institute
of Management, the Employers’ Feder-
ation, and Chambers of Commerce are
already doing a good deal in this area.
But the Department may be able to
push things along faster. In its Press
statement, the Department mentioned
the possibility of it producing a series
of booklets, presumably on management
techniques.
The Americans, with their acute con-
cern for competition, have always
placed far more emphasis than other
nations on the value for the community
of giving small businesses equal oppor-
tunities. Their decentralised banking
system is far better geared "to assist, for
a start. Their anti-monopoly laws are
very important, too, in giving the small
firm a go. Despite this, the American
Administration saw fit to establish a
specialist small-business administration.
With branches in all States, this agency
provides a wide range of services to
small business.
The whole question is obviously ripe
for investigation and action here.
Defence spending
Good news for
the locals
PRIME MINISTER GORTON is
obviously hedging himself on the future
of defence spending. At his initial
Press conference he went out of his
way to stress that development would
not be sacrificed for defence. Indeed,
he trotted out the old familiar line
resorted to by Menzies in the days
of s4oom. defence budgets, namely that
restrictions on development would
themselves undermine our defence
Mirage fighters ... most effective
potential. “There is a limit to the
amount that a country such as ours-
can afford to spend on defence because
there are requirements of development,
of immigration, requirements of look-
ing after our own population, which
at some stage must have some effect
on Australia’s defence potential . .
Tradfe Minister McEwen quickly
chimed in on the same theme, taking
as his platform the policy of Federal
Council of the Country Party: “Our
defence costs are already at a very high
level and it would be quite a serious
matter to consider further increasing
the cost to the economy.”
This is all right in theory, of course,
but soon the Australian Government
will be forced to give an answer, yes
or no, to Malaysia and Singapore. The
implications of saying no would be
very great a complete abandonment
of the strategy on which our defence
is based. So the most likely answer is
a grudging yes, plus continued moderate
rises in defence spending year by year.
The area likely to be most restricted
in future is overseas equipment pur-
chases. The Air Force will, after the
completion of the Mirage and F- 111
deliveries, have one of the world’s most
effective forces of fighting planes.
There is no 'sign that the Navy is-
emerging with any higher priority, so
spending on foreign-made ships is cer-
tain to decline. Which means that the
Army will get a good proportion of
the extra defence funds. And these
stay mostly in Australia.
If indeed this is the pattern of
future defence spending—and we will
not know until the next three-year
defence plan is announced some time
before June —then it is good news for
Australian business. The actual level
of defence spending is not so important.
The important question is whether it
is spent here or abroad. All the signs
are that, whatever the level of spending,
a higher proportion will be spent at
home.


THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy : Seasonal adjustments to the
employment statistics (particularly taking account of school-
leavers) indicate a tightening of the labor position during
December; actual unemployed registrants reached 83,600
(November, 63,000), while vacancies totalled 45,400
(41,400).
Deposits with the major trading banks increased by $124.6
million to $5717.1 million in December, following Novem-
ber’s record $145.9 million addition; advances dropped back
by $5.5 million to $3307 million . . . New and increased
overdrafts went up by an average $32.7 million a week
during December, after averaging $31.8 million in November;
total commitments at mid-December were $4686.9 million.
The 1967 calendar year saw 413,352 new motor vehicles
registered 4802 more than the previous 1964 record of
408,550 and well above 1966’s 378,370.
For the markets i A broad field of metals and oils
has been in high speculative demand on Australian share
markets; industrials get considerably less interest and tend
to droop a little.
Not unnaturally, London gave a rather unsettled appear-
ance over most of the week, yet buyers were seeking good
industrials toward the close . . . Wall Street finished lower
on very active dealings.
For companies : The miners once again laid claim for
the most attention . . . Western Mining at last revealed its
nickel processing plans, involving a minimum $45 million
to build a refinery at Kwinana which will treat Kambalda
concentrates; financial details are soon to be disclosed and
production will start within three years . . . Another 10
million tons of low-grade iron ore will go from Hamersley
to Japan, bringing in about $45 million; this new contract
extends over the 12J years beginning late-1970 . . . Broken
Hill South lifted output of copper from the Cobar mine in
the December half-year; in Broken Hill its silver and zinc
production rose as a result of more residue treatment . . .
Good news came also from Mount Isa, where copper ore
grades showed some improvement ... A member of the
D. K. Ludwig group, Clutha Development Pty., is not to
exercise its options over Longreach Oil’s Duchess (Queens-
land) phosphate prospect . . . Rumors of a Conzinc Riotinto
bid for New Broken Hill gathered force, especially in Lon-
don ... To cap it all, BHP-Esso’s Kingfish B-l well gave
“a show of oil” and, incidentally, BHP’s output of pig iron
and steel began to climb again in December.
Reserve Bank approval has been won for the joint
(discount) department store plans of G. J. Coles and
S. S. Kresge Co., of U.S.A.; the first store should open for
1968 Christmas trading . . . On the downside of retailing,
Cox Bros.’ accumulated losses went from $10,139,592 to
$28,646,450 in the year to July last, mainly reflecting losses
on asset disposal . . . Electronic Industries may buy the 23
Victorian shops of the failed H. G. Palmer group.
The dividend of International Combustion Australia goes
from 20 to 25 percent (with a final 17) as earnings leap from
$744,248 to $1,077,077 to give a 73.8 percent earning rate
. . . G. E. Crane Holdings has bid for Plumbers’ Supplies;
two directors of Plumbers’ approve and one disapproves
. . . Adelaide’s Brighton Cement pays a steady four peivent
interim on “marginally better” earnings.
W.A.’s haulage and equipment group, Bell Bros.’, issue will
be a l-for-5, the 50 cent shares carrying a $1 premium . . .
Ampol Petroleum forecasts a 1967-68 profit well able to
cover a steady 10 percent.
MEN AND MATTERS
JOHN F. HOPKINS, who at 51
succeeds Cecil Schilling on his retire-
ment from the Kayser board after being
joint managing director with him for
the past two years or so, got his in-
vitation to join the firm in 1965 when
on an assignment in South America for
the International Wool Secretariat,
where latterly he was director of market
development. His transition into the
world of synthetics wasn’t all that
absolute, however, because among other
things Hopkins has a thousand-acre
wool property near Seymour (before
his IWS appointment in the early
’fifties for eight years he ran a dairy
farm at Pakenham).
After leaving Carey Grammar, Hop-
kins did an Arts degree at Melbourne
University and then took a job in
Eagley Mills (Foys) and later went
to Holeproof Industries, where he
planned the decentralisation of its
plants and became manager of the
Deepdene zone. From there he started
his own socks-making business at Can-
terbury (he now lives in nearby Surrey
Hills with his wife, a son, and two
daughters). The war put an end to
that with a long spell with the AIF
(18th brigade). Mr. Hopkins has
covered a lot of ground and jobs since
then but, going on the expansion,
diversification, and marketing know-
how displayed by Kayser since he
arrived there, not to speak of several
coveted advertising awards won both
here and overseas, he has now found his
true metier in his own hometown,
His elevation to the Kayser chair
only confirms the good sense of Court-
aulds, who probably had a big say in
it because they’ve owned the show since
the parent company in Britain was
brought under their roof some time ago.
Eventually there could be, presumably,
a closer management link between all
the Courtaulds’ interests, including
Kayser, in Australia. But when and
whether this is to be. was merely an
interesting suggestion in Hopkins’ ear.
So was the further poser as to why the
Australian subsidiary always seemed to
do sO , nluch better . tbai ! the Ka V ser
P arent com P an >' w » h >« access to
ch “l? c . r >’ arns j machme . r >'" and iabor >
and b, *« er vo,ume martets '
BILL WARNOCK makes documentary
films for fun, writes plays, has had a
series broadcast nationally on ABC-TV,
an d is working on a bawdy musical
about a parson; he is redhaired with a
bushy beard, as befits a man with such
interests. But, perhaps less in char-
acter, he is also head of Perth’s fastest-
growing advertising agency, which last
week became the first in the West to
P ass the $1 million mark in billings
( a d lingo for expenditure on behalf of
clients).
After a standard start working in a
John Hopkins
Bill Warnock
bank, Mr. Warnock quit the day he
was transferred to Southern Cross, the
equivalent of Back O’Bourke. He
learnt the ad trade and at 23 was
advertising manager of Wesfarmers,
one of the State’s five biggest concerns.
There he met up with John Sandford
and the two were able to persuade
management that the Wesfarmers
account should become the basis for
their own private agency; Warnock and
Sandford was set up in 1960.
Two years ago John Sandford headed
for Ted Bates International’s London
subsidiary and Mr. Warnock bought
him out. He passed the million-dollar
milestone last week with a four-handed
push, all in the one day—getting the
accounts of retailers Bairds, confec-
tioners Plaistowe’s, Holden distributors
Sydney Atkinsons, and merging with
the small agency of Roger Beynon.


«■ \
FLY-PRIVE TO SALES SUCCESS
.. .THEN ADELAIDE
ON THURSDAY —
PERTH THE DAY
AFTER.
f I'VE BOOKED
' YOU ON ANSETT
-ANA AND
THERE'LL BE AN
AVIS MORRIS <
IIOO WAITING
v AT THE
AIRPORTS
THIS IS GOING TO
SAVE A LOT OF TIME.
I'LL GET THERE _
FRESHER TOO T
JIM
WE
WANT
HANDLE
I PRODUCT
£
YOU
TO
THE
NEW
RELEASE
ALL
C2
STATES
O
m
IS
T
'-X
a
*
c.
"Ji
n
7Z
3
AVIS
Ms
a
&
MicnaeJ
Tabrett
t m
I7H/SS/67
V
Apelaipe.
Perth
FLY
GOOD WORK JIM ... THE
ORDERS ARE OVER BUDGET
ALREADY WE'D BETTER
FLY-DRIVE YOU AROUND
MORE OFTEN/
BEAUTY JIM...
THAT WAS A
REAL
SUCCESS. y
WILL YOU TAKE
AN ORDER NOW
MR BOND P
THAT'S A WINNER
AMSETTANA
pR/ve '^f=p=s>
%
«C.J|
O
m
A jM
MORRIS 1100 -
&
BOOK YOUR CAR
WHEN YOU BOOK
YOUR FLIGHT.
!■£
r
THE
CROESUS
TOUCH
A lively pace
toward
containerisation
BY J. C. HORSFALL
PORT AUTHORITIES and shipping
companies alike are setting a hot pace
in their preparations for the initiation
of containerisation in the UK/Continent
general-cargo trades early next year,
on lines elaborated in this column last
May (“Shipping in the ’Seventies,”
8., May 4). Work at the three
container ports (Fremantle, Melbourne,
and Sydney) is well advanced (in fact,
ahead of schedule at Fremantle and
Melbourne) on the facilities required
to cater for the six Overseas Container
Ltd. and three Associated Container
Transportation 27,000-tonners being
built in Britain and Germany to pro-
vide the service. Shipping people tell me
that for the most part the wharf and
berthing facilities now being built will
also be available for container ships in
the Japan and North Amercan trades
when these start operating, in Japan’s
case probably late next year and in
North America’s within three or four
-years.
Arrangements are also well in hand
to provide the necessary feeder services
to other Australian ports from the three
container ports. Associated Steamships
Pty. Ltd. (60-40 owned by Mcllwraith
McEacharn and Adelaide Steamship
and linked with OCL) already have
one vessel, the 5000-ton container ship,
Kooringa, which has been successfully
plying between Fremantle and Mel-
bourne since June, 1964, and have two
new ones of 12,000 tons each now
building at Whyalla, specially designed
for the Australian coastal trade. In
addition, the Australian National Line
is building four 4000-ton roll-on/roll-off
ships to add to the three it has now in
coastal-trade service. These new vessels
will all be brought into service within
a year or so.
OCL and ACT have qlready placed
• orders for the construction of their
initial requirements of containers to
the tune of almost six million dollars
with Australian manufacturers, who,
thanks to the spectacular expansion of
local secondary industry in recent
years, are well equipped to cater for the
substantial orders for containers ex-
pected to come to them in the next
few years. In the absence of effective
pooling arrangements (a hiring pool
has been in operation these past two
years for containers used in the coastal
trade), present indications are that as
loading and unloading of containers
will take place simultaneously it has
been estimated that eventually as many
as 15,000 of them could be required for
use in Australia’s overseas general cargo
trade. So far 3500 have been ordered
by OCL and ACT in Australia, the
basic units costing about SAI3OO and
refrigerated ones upwards of SA4OOO.
Being linked with Associated Steam-
ships, OCL is in the fortunate position
of having the latter’s ready-made depots
and other on-shore facilities, established
at most Australian ports these many
years, at its disposal. These are being
extended through the medium of
Seatainer terminals, jointly owned by
OCL and Associated Steamships, in new
construction of terminal, packing and
unpacking facilities in Brisbane,
Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne, and
Fremantle (where at North Fremantle
a new depot has already started
operating).
As well as employing its feeder ser-
vices from the three container ports,
ACT will utilise some of the facilities
provided by Seatainer Pty. Ltd. for
the OCL group at the various depots,
including satellite ones. But ACT is
also, for the OCL group, establishing
its own independent network of inland


Invest in
IHDUSTRIALACCEPTAHCI
* mEßmum mM
1 '.'SSIiS J
Paid up capital
$25,000,000
7
0
2
FOR 5 YEARS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details. Prospectus and application
form available from:
• BROKERS - lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK
EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
ASK A.N.Zn FOR DETAILS
15348
There's the Bank of Ceylon and ...
SUNNY BEACHES AND COOL MOUNTAIN
WATERFALLS TOO! jk
When you come to Ceylon on business,
you will also enjoy the pleasures of a
tropical island-paradise with its cool
mountain springs too! Set like a pearl
in the sapphire blue waters of the Indian
Ocean, Ceylon will enchant you with its
warm golden beaches where you can
swim, surf and skin dive, and its blue
misty mountains where you can fish,
hunt or play golf—all within a couple
of hours’ travelling distance.
And in this island-paradise, the Bank of
Ceylon offers you a modern and up-to-
date banking service including Intelli-
gence Reports, Credit Information,
financing of exports and imports, and
avery type of foreign exchange trans-
action.
In your trade relations with Ceylon, you
can depend on the Bank of Ceylon—the
bank that controls over half of Ceylon’s
bank deposits.
°L£*s
9C6&
BANK OR CEYLON
LARGEST BANK IN CEYLON
LONDON OFFICE:
48-54, Moorgate,
LONDON E.C.2.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, COLOMBO 1.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, COLOMBO 1.
depots and major depots in Fremantle,
Melbourne, and Sydney. As the Aus-
tralian subsidiary of ACT put it
recently, “This means that any shipper,
large or small, will have ready access
to a transportation system through
which he can dispatch, in one single in-
struction, a consignment from Bourke
(far-west N.S.W.) to Birmingham, with
almost as much ease as a shipper in
Brisbane can send his products to Bal-
larat.”
All this is very satisfactory, but, on
the face of it, some interests would
appear to be getting into a monopolis-
tic position, something the Federal
Government is well aware of as
evidenced by Sir Alan Westerman’s ener-
getic but unavailing overseas exertions
to whip up a bit of competition last
year, and Mr. lan Sinclair’s unsuccess-
ful entreaties last April to get Aus-
tralian industry more into wharf facil-
ities play. It now looks as if any recom-
mendations thrown up by the Senate
Select Committee on containerisation,
when it reports in mid-year (such
reports seldom appear on time), will
come a bit late in the day to disturb
the degree of monopoly. At any rate I
learnt this week that at least the Euro-
pean companies, who have a big pro-
gram on hand to increase the number
of Skandia ships in the Australian trade,
have been making progress with their
negotiations with Australian port
authorities. These unit-load ships offer
the best guarantee that OCL and ACT
don’t have things all their own way
with their container ships.
Containers are not the answer to
everything in the overseas general cargo
trades. It is a very open question which
way the wool industry, for instance,
will turn if it eventually decides to
take full advantage of mechanised
handling methods in the export of wool.
At present, as far as one can gather,
the bright idea put up by the Wool
Selling Brokers to establish wool vil-
lages in which high dump presses would
be used to prepare wool for carriage
by containers or unit loads is rather
hanging fire, even though last week
another such project was mooted, this
time for Western Australia.
The concept is revolutionary for the
Australian wool industry, which is the
only major Australian primary industry
not yet to have availed itself to the
most modern shipping devices, the only
one which, for obvious reasons, has not
adopted bulk handling of its product.
The wool villages now being planned to
bring wool handling into thq, mechanised
age, whether in its unit-load or con-
tainer guise, are bold in conception,
not only because they break with
dogged tradition in wool handling in
Australia but also because they involve
a radical rationalisation of the com-
plex of somewhat costly services en-
tailed in getting wool from Australian
pastures to overseas mills a rational-
isation which, like mechanised handling
itself, promises to benefit woolgrowers
and overseas consumers of Australian
wool alike.


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
Incorporated in 1935/Paid up capitalsB,ooo,ooo
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Yielding
up to
9
Prospectuses and Forms of
Application are obtainable from:
Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia
Any branch of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd.
The Hongkong Bank Group
Representative Office, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney
Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd
N.Bi Applications for Debenture Stock
will proceed only on one of the Forms of
Application referred to in and attached to
a printed copy of the Prospectus. The
main business of Mercantile Credits
Limited is the provision of finance
facilities in various forms for industrial,
commercial or private purposes.
MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
Head Office: Gold Fields House,
1 Alfred St. Sydney Cove Sydney 2 0556
2241/67 NSW
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES.—IN DIVORCE.
To James Harvey Maisey. TAKE
NOTICE that 'JOYCE LILLIAN
MAISEY has filed Petition No. 56 of
1968, for divorce on the grounds of
desertion and or separation and seeks
orders for maintenance and costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 29th
day of February, 1968. You mav obtain
without charge a copy of the Petition
from Gregg Milne & Co., Solicitors,
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A.
H. Harms, REGISTRAR.
SPECULATOR’S
DIARY
Making a silly
word out
of investment
DR. FRANZ PICK, the eminent inter-
national monetary analyst, is the author
of a recent article in the U.S. publica-
tion “Pick’s World Currency Report.”
In this article, which appeared earlier
this month, the Doc points the finger
of doom at the world’s paper currency
structure. He backs this up with the
fact that in 1967 61 out of the 122
monetary units in the non-Communist
world were devalued. This state of
affairs, he said, “created a brutal pic-
ture of pseudo-legality and made the
already silly word of ‘investment’ more
ridiculous than ever.” The Doc, how-
ever, does not leave us high and dry
with the money problem without one or
two suggestions as to what to do about
it. The trick, it appears, is to get out
of equities and into precious minerals
and objets d’art. These investments
(if you’ll excuse the word) are some
of the few that are growing in worth
at a faster rate than money is cor-
roding.
The facts given to support this theory
are hard to refute. Silver, for instance
(although thoroughly mismanaged by
the U.S. Treasury, according to the
Doc), rose in value by 71 percent in the
last seven months of 1967. The profits
made on the metal from future and
credit trading were even higher—300
percent in some cases! Platinum, the
Rinso-washed version of silver, also did
well. It rose 53 percent during the year
on a straight buy-and-sell basis and re-
turned as high as 200 percent on some
future purchases. On the art objects
and collectors’ items side of things
business was also booming in 1967. Old
masters were up by around 70 percent
(you could hardly help but enjoy look-
ing at something that was increasing
in value by over 5 percent per month)
and rare books and manuscripts were
60 percent more valuable than a year
earlier. Tapestries were good value, too.
They went up by 40 percent and look
like doing even better in the future.
Although there’s a lot to be said
for the Doc’s ideas, I think I’ll still
stick to the path I know—the one to
the Stock Exchange. Not knowing what
forces are at play in the silver and Van
Gogh markets might be a bit tricky for
an old-fashioned stock and share man.
This week I didn’t buy a single Sid
Nolan or a Russell Drysdale but 100
King Island Scheelites. My reasons
were the world shortage of and the
growing market for tungsten, with the
inevitable price rise caused by such a
situation. Last year an overall increase
of around 30 percent in the price of
the metal, which became wildly accen-
tuated in the last months of the year,
enabled King Island Scheelite to romp
home with a 49 percent increase in
profit. This was despite the fact that
the company’s output was slightly down
on 1966. This year, with the U.S. and
U.S.S.R. space programs and the race
to the moon in full swing, the demand
for tungsten should be well and truly
sustained and probably even intensi-
fied. Tungsten is popular with the space
people because, with a melting point
of 617 degrees Fahrenheit (which is
hot in anyone’s language), it is one of
the earth’s most heat-resistant metals.
Another bull point for tungsten is
that its largest single supplier is China.
If ever anything happens there to dis-
rupt supplies, even for a limited period,
it can be reasonably expected that
prices will go even higher and pro-
ducers in other countries would bene-
fit accordingly.
Another company that’s in for bene-
fits at the moment is Allied Mills
(luckily, it’s in the portfolio). As one
of the country’s main suppliers of stock
feed to the rural community, the com-
pany is one of the few that should
benefit from the droughts that have
visited so much of Australia for so
many months. It’s a company well
worth a closer look.
BOUGHT
100 King Island Scheelite, $5.55 $566
Fortunately, there’s a mail strike on,
because if there wasn’t I’m sure I’d
get a “please explain” from my bank
manager. I’m now $2564 on the wrong
side of the ledger.
Date Cost per
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Allied Mills 26/4/67 i. 69 1.52
200 R. W. MOIIer 14/6/67 1.35 1 25
200 Howard Sm'iith 25/7/67 3.34 3.35
300 'Ralta Holdings 25/7/67 .56 .47
300 William Adams 17/8/67 2.12 1.91
200 Steg'bar 17/8/67 1.46 1.55
200 Westralian 29/8/67 1.17 11.26
500 'Concrete kid. 30/8/67 .47 .39
300 Thiiess 5/9/67 2.18 4 82
400 Trade Credits 20/9/67 1.19 1.08
300 Bennett & Wood 3/10/67 1.35 1.45
300 iNylex 3/10/67 .95 .94
350 iHlil.ton Gorp. 10/10/67 1.08 1.10
300 Email 17/10/67 .71 .67
500 'Planet 10c paid 26/10/67 .27 .26
200 'Hunter 'Douglas 2/11/67 2 35 2 50
500 'James Wallace 15/11/67 .40 .34
200 'BHP 15/11/67 16 95 16 60
200 Bonds Industries 22/11/67 1.45 1.43
200 .Lindeman’s 27/12/67 3 82 4 16
<2OO Kern 'Bros. 28/12/67 3.70 3.70
400 Mineral 'Deposits 2/1/68 3.75 4.25
t4OO iLongreach Oil .2/1/68 .57 .70
10,000 'Bowliing Centre
Holdings 11/1/68 .08 .12
100 King Island Scheel'ite 18/1/68 5 55 5 55


WILD CAT PAGES
Another inspection of a
“container” list
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
ONE OF THE LAST circulars to
clients put out by lan Potter and Co.
before Sir lan Potter handed over to
Mr. C. T. Looker last year was an
excellent conspectus of the whys and
wherefors of containerisation related to
share-market prospects for Australian
companies in line to benefit from the
introduction of container ships into the
U.K./Continent general cargo trades
early next year. That was in May, since
when the Melbourne market has en-
joyed considerable buoyancy. Even ad-
mining that the industrial and leaders’
indexes grossly over-state the general
sweep of the rise in industrial shares
prices, those of most companies have
performed reasonably well. This cannot
be said for the majority of the “con-
tainer” shares mentioned in the Potter
circular.
Many of these have fallen. This
prompts the thought that the list might
be worth another inspection. One
notices that there was a flurry, temper-
, . .-p-vri-r , ,
a y, however, m TNT early last week,
also in Adelaide Steamship (not on the
list, but interesting, because since the
circular it has acquired 10 percent
more of the shares in Associated Steam-
ships Pty. Ltd. from Mcllwraith Me-
Eacharn, bringing its holdings up to 50
percent, the same as the latter corn-
pany’s).
If Adelaide Steamship ( now around
80 cents after last week’s rise) and
Mcllwraith McEacharn (117 cents) are
to be bought at current prices, it would
not f, e on their recent profit perfornr-
ances, because although the former
lifted its profit marginally last year, the
latter’s profit slipped (by how much is
a moot point, since Associated Steam-
ship’s results were left out of the con-
solidation, the company having ceased
to be a subsidiary). Nor would these
shares appeal on past results of Asso-
dated Steamships, which actually have
recently been miserable (a loss was in-
curred last year). The case for them
now is largely tied up with how Asso-
ciated Steamships is likely to benefit
sitting in the box seat of the container
terminal and depot arrangements and
ee^er services it will be providing
? the three container ships it will
hav f e . avall * Ie for the transhipment of
containers from the three container
Overseas Container Ltd and
Associated Container Transportation
w ill be calling at from early next year,
Potter’s liked the look of this longer-
term prospect in their circular,
One of the shares on the list to
have improved since last May is Payn-
ter and Dixon Industries, which is
building container terminals at Syd-
ney, Melbourne, and Fremantle for
Seatainers (OCL and Associated
Steamships). They’ve gone up from
175 to 190 cents, but there the yield
is now a sparing 4.4 percent. Against
that, Vickers Australia, which has a
contract worth nearly as much for the
supply and installation of cranes for
container berths, has dropped from 132
to 120 cents, which is a bit surprising
when the full possibilities for the ex-
pansion of the group’s activities in
Australia are considered. Nor is there
any appetite as yet for the shares of
Freighters, still only 35 cents despite
its contracts to make containers and
the sdope for expanding its trailer
business for their on-shore carriage,
something of course which must be
weighed against the fitful profit per-
formances of the group.
Of the transport companies, the
shares of Mayne Nickless have moved
up a shade to 305 and, considering this
company’s tie-up with P and O (one
of the OCL consortium), there could
be considerably more scope in these.
Perhaps the most disappointing in this
field is Brambles, who’ve dropped from
145 to 115 cents since the Potter circu-
lar. It could well be right /to put some
of them away while they are to be had
at such a bargain price.
LETTING HIS LOGIC play on the
concept of feeder vessels fanning out
from major container ports served by
big container ships to service smaller
ports, Mr. Adrian Boehme, assistant
manager of Associated Steamships,
speaking to The Bulletin, came up with
a prospectus which looks to us to be
the ultimate extension of containerisa-
tion. He outlined it to a recent con-
ference on the economics of container-
isation in London.
The ground plan of this is that
world shipping could finish with only
three grand trunk routes, which would
be from northern Europe to Japan, San
Francisco to' Japan, and from Northern
Europe to North America all served
by 27-knot container ships of, say,
100,000 tons capable of carrying 4000
20ft. containers. In this he envisages
Darwin as a possible terminating port
for the Northern Europe to South-East
Asia run. Transhipment would take
place at Darwin for major Australian
ports in feeder ships even bigger than
those to be used by OCL and ACT on
the U.K./Continent-Australia run next
year. He estimates that the tranship-
ment costs at Darwin would be surpris-
ingly small, about $lO a container. A
second mainline service would fork out
at Darwin for Far Eastern ports.
In this set-up he says that trade be-
The Chartist says:
NEW BROKEN HILL CONSOLIDATED was already recommended for a move
close to $lO in August, 1967. The share price did in fact rise to $9.60, after following
a 1500 percent intermediate trend rate. An area of consolidation has since followed
and the current rise to $10.20 on high volume would be considered a breakout
from the congestion area; a short- to medium-term target of approximately $15.50
is indicated. The past history on the chart shows that this stock is capable of fast
intermediate trend rates. Last sale price on 18/1/68 —$9.60.


mi’..
■m.
B&P knows about envelopes - for FUND RAISING
B & P makes millions of envelopes for Fund Raising! When your need is for
envelopes, help yourself by calling on B & P for expert assistance. It’s well
supported ..B&P knows more about envelopes for every purpose, includ-
ing yours. Phone your B&P man, today! .
BRISBANE 31 2518 —SYDNEY 51 3791 MELBOURNE 56 1091
ADELAIDE 8 7266 PERTH 21 5196
B & P ENVELOPES
BESLEY & PIKE PTY. LTD. MANUFACTURERS OF THE LARGEST RANGE OF ENVELOPES in AUSTRALIA
Visiting Adelaide?
Enjoy your stay in the air conditioned
comfort of South Australia's largest hotel.
GROSVENOR
in the city centre
• Centrally located close to Rail, Air and Bus
Terminals, Theatres, Shops, etc.
• First class accommodation at attractive tariffs.
• All rooms have wall-to-wall carpet, H & C water,
phone, reading lamps, and many have air-
conditioning and private facilities.
• Free Baggage Delivery Service to and from Rail
and Air Terminals by Hotel Porters.
• Basement Car Park with elevator service.
• Modern air-conditioned Dining Room with attrac-
tive a la carte menu.
To: The Grosvenor Hotel, North Tee., Adelaide,
S.A. 5000. Tel. 51 2961. Please send me free
colour brochure.
Name
Address
Post Cnrle
I
fi ft
H.tt
if fi
fi [E
[fi Ef
51
GOT,
This
Week’s
Year
week
change
ago
Aluminium, ton
£ 228 2-3
—
£19*
Capper w.b., ton
£'5971/4
+ £ 233/ 4
£451
'Gold, oz.
292/2Vi
+ 3/4 d
252/11/4
£ 92 '5-.16
+ £3-1*
£ 79 3-1*
Si'lver, oz.
207d
- 5d
1117/ad
Tin, ton
£11324
+ £4
£111983/4
Wol'fram, unit
415/-
- 12/6
353/9
Zinc, ton
£1111/8
- £ 3 /4
£ 1021/a
■Wheat, Aust. ton
£ 283A
£ 263/4
'Linseed oil, ton
£ 1231/2
- £ 2
£88
Cocoa, 50 kilos
283/3
+ 7/-
221/3
Cotton, Am. lb.
—
—
22.15d
'Rubber, lb.
163/4 d
- 13-16d
181/sd
Sugar, ton
Wool, tops
64s, lb.
£ 24
+ £1
£ 141/2
ll'9d
—
113d
tween Australia and Japan would go
through Darwin, with transhipment
there, and that in all aspects the
economies of scale arising from the
great increase in ship size would appear
to offer considerable scope for freight
reductions. He admits, however, that
this final stage in containerisation is
possibly a long way off, but he thinks
it will have to come if we’re to get the
maximum benefit from the revolution
in cargo mechanical-handling methods.
One block to it happening, of course,
is the difficulty of getting all shipping
companies to co-operate. At least the
new arrangements for containerisation
and unit handling in the U.K./Con-
tinent-Australia trades show that the
big fish in the world shipping business
can get together surprisingly quickly
when it pays them to do so.
Some idea of the immediate benefits
to be obtained from containerisation is
furnished by Bond Worth Ltd., the
Stourport (U.K.) carpet manufac-
turer. Its Australian customers can’now
get delivery twenty days sooner since
the company has decided to use a door-
to-door container service. Rugs, broad-
loom, and body carpet are being sent to
the Mornington (Vic.) factory in units,
and, using the weekly service operated
by OCL, delivery time has been cut
to 33 days. Both risks of loss and
handling costs are reduced.
IN THE OIL market, Esso-BHP’s
announcement of a show of oil from
a core in Kingfish B-l gave BHP shares
new vigor. As coring was continuing
at 7463 feet, this show was higher than
the oil flow in Kingfish A-l last June.
The partnership continued to have
mechanical difficulties in the Otway
Basin and relocated its Prawn A-l well
to a third position.
Burmah’s Ashmore Reef No. 1
well was drilling beyond 9317 feet
(three-quarters of target depth), in in-
terbedded volcanics and sediments.
Delhi-Santos’ Mudlalee No. 1 wild-
cat test well was abandoned at 6829
feet and the rig moved to 62m. south
of the Moomba gasfield for a new
wildcat Tingana No. 1.
ACG’s drilling vessel, E. W. Thorn-
ton, has set anchors at the site of
Aquarius No. 1 and is preparing to
commence drilling.
Planet-AGL’s Bancannia South No. 1
well was delayed at 9791 feet (within
250 feet of target) by rig-motor repairs.
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES


i <J
tyres for a ship?
THE OLYMPIC GROUP
OF COMPANIES
All-Australian
and proud of it!
“Surprising,” you might say, “where could you put the axle?” Not so
surprising, however, when you realise that we’re talking about a rotating
fender using several Olympic heavy-duty tyres to form a king-size cushion
to keep the overhanging deck of the container ship “Kooringa” from
bumping against the wharf at the Port of Melbourne’s Victoria Dock. Rather
a change for Olympic tyres and quite unlike thousands on cars and trucks
running safely along every highway in Australia.
Olympic have the answers to many problems not only in tyres and tyre
care, but in the fields of telecommunication and transmission cables, bulk
materials handling by conveyor belting, or industrial plastics for many
engineering uses.
In so many ways, Australian-made Olympic products provide the answer for
problems and everyday needs, large or small, domestic or industrial. Just
ask us about yours. If it’s branded “Olympic” it’s the best.
Olympic
• THE OLYMPIC TYRE AND RUBBER CO. PTY. LTD. • OLYMPIC CABLES PTY. LTD.
• BEAUREPAIRE TYRE SERVICE PTY. LTD. • OLYMPIC GENERAL PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.


Security analysis
Penfolds poised for take-off
NOT FOR ME THE CHARM of
wine as an “intellectual challenge and
appeal to the senses” (to quote my
favorite expert Max Lake). But the
earthy charms of wine as an industry
with an outstanding growth potential
well, that puts an entirely different
complexion on the subject. My immedi-
ate interest has been heightened by the
Commonwealth Statistician’s Bulletin on
Wholesale Sales of Australian Wine for
the year ended June, 1967. This report,
only released on January 9 this year,
shows an increase in sales of all bever-
age wine of 14.1 percent during 1966/67,
compared with the preceding year. The
statistics in more detail are worth exam-
ining:
Wholesale Sales of Beverage Wine*: Australia
yj yj 1-
tl E *3 £
So if if -2 oi
■£ h £ £io
Fortified
Sherry 5,863 35.3 6,193 3'5.5 +5.6
Dessert wines 3,110 120.3 3,i29.7. 18.8 +6.0
Flavored wines 497 3.3 571 3.3 +14.9
Total fortified 9,475 61.9 110,066 Frb +6.2
Non-fortified
Dry red 2,519 16.5 3,196 18.3 +26.9
Dry white 1,411 9.2 1,892 10.8 +34.1
Sweet, red 8c white 423 2.8 533 3.1 +26.0
Rose 91 0.6 104 0.6 +14.3
Sparkling wine—
Natural fermenta-
tion 482 3.1 504 2.9 +4.6
Other 909 5.9 1,179 6.7 +29.7
Total non-
fortified 5,835 38,1 7,408 42.4 +27.0
Total beverage
wine 15,310 100.0 17,474 100.0 +14.1
Apparent 'con-
sumption per
■head of popu-
lation—‘gallons 1.34 1.50 +111.9
* Does not include 'brandy.
For a wine-producing country with
a history of commercial wine-making
going back over a hundred years, it is
still a little hard to believe that, even
a decade ago, few Australians were
educated to drink table wines in any
quantity. • Champagne and even in-
expensive table wines were reserved for
festive occasions in most Australian
homes. Wine producers at last woke
up in the mid-19505, when export sales,
particularly to the United Kingdom,
began to decline. Industry promotion is
now beginning to stimulate the taste
buds of Australian consumers. Statistics
showing sales of wine in Australia were
not available before 1955/56. In
1955/56, sales of table wine (including
sparkling) represented only 17 percent
of total sales of beverage wine in Aus-
tralia. In 1966/67, some 11 years later,
table wine (including sparkling) had
increased at an annual rate of over 28
percent in gallonage sales, and table
wine in 1967 now represented 42 per-
cent of the total beverage wine output.
There is some doubt in the industry
whether the Commonwealth Statistic-
ian’s figures on annual wine sales should
be taken with a grain of salt, in that
there is a strong possibility of some
double counting by some producers.
However, whether these figures can be
regarded as a strictly accurate indicator
or not, there is complete agreement that
the industry is in a highly buoyant state
and likely to remain so for many years.
Putting my forecasting hat on, I ven-
ture to suggest that some time during
1968 or 1969, if the present industry
rate of growth continues, sales of table
wine in Australia will exceed sales of
fortified wine for the first time in the
history of the Australian industry.
Apparent beverage wine consumption
remained a stagnant 1.1 gallon per head
of population between 1956 and 1963.
But by 1967 the apparent consumption
had increased to 1.5 gallons per head
of population. By 1972, my sense of
economic feel tells me that consumption
should exceed 2.1 gallons per head of
population. To the mass of the Aus-
tralian population, beer drinkers and
all (as distinct from the wine and food
society buffs), wine is ceasing to be a
pretentious drink and is becoming a
common beverage, as it should be. Of
course, beer has a headlong start in
alcoholic consumption in Australia, with
an apparent consumption of over 24
gallons per head of population, but
there is no growth in the rate of con-
sumption. By comparison, whisky, gin,
and brandy have an apparent consump-
tion of 0.3 gallons per head.
It was sheer coincidence that Dr. C.
R. Penfold planted wine grapes in the
Adelaide hills in 1844, only a few
months after a fellow surgeon, Dr. H.
J. Lindeman, started a vineyard in the
Hunter Valley in 1843. Both medicos
founded wine empires, which continue
to bear their name today. As Max
Lake tells the story (“Vine and
Scalpel”), Dr. Penfold had a “great be-
lief in port as a medicine and was also
very fond of it himself,” He practised
medicine and tended his vineyard at
the same time. It”was popular medical
theory at the time that wine was a
good cure for anaemia. His daughter
married J. F. Hyland in 1870, a soldier
who also turned winemaker. Dr. Pen-
fold’s grandson is the current chairman
of Penfolds Wines Australia Ltd., which
floated as a public company in 1962.
The Penfold Hyland family investment
company, Francis Investment Co. Pty.
Ltd., holds slightly over 60 percent of
the issued capital in the Penfold public
company. Mr. Jeffrey Penfold Hyland
is chief executive officer as well as com-
pany chairman, but it is acknowledged
throughout the industry that the chief
operating officer, Mr. Alan Benson,
recruited in 1964 from a pharmaceutical
house, introduced professional manage-
ment to the company.
Today Penfolds Wines are one of the
three top wine marketers, along with
McWilliams Wines and Lindemans, in
an industry with a dozen or so signi-
ficantly sized companies.
Penfolds, with about 20 percent of
the industry sales, produce about 75
percent of their own requirements from
grapes either grown by themselves or
purchased from growers, and also buy
in wines from outside organisations for
blending to make up the balance of
their sales. In addition to wine and
brandy, the company is the Australian
agent for Ballantine’s scotch whisky
and also sells its own brand of Aus-
tralian whisky under the “Hyland”
brand.
The structure of the Penfolds Wine
group is impressive in its size and
dimensions—lo wineries, three distil-
leries, and 11 vineyards (including two
in New Zealand), with company-owned
distribution centres in all mainland
States of Australia, and in Auckland
(N.Z.). There are also agents in Tas-
mania, Canberra, and Townsville
(Qld.).
The processing centres are at:
South Australia: Wineries and distil-
leries at Nuriootpa and Magill; winery
and vineyards at Auldana and Kalimna;
vineyards at Grange (Magill), Coona-
warra, and Modbury.
New South Wales: Winery and distil-
lery at Griffith; winery and vineyard at
Dalwood Estate (Wybong Park),
wineries at Tempe (Sydney), Min-
chinbury (Rooty Hill), Mirroul
(Griffith); vineyards at Penfold Vale
(Pokolbin); Hunter Valley vineyard
(Pokolbin), and Southridge (near
Rooty Hill).
New Zealand: Henderson winery and
vineyards and the Waimauku vineyards,
which are operated by the 60-percent-
owned subsidiary, Penfolds Wines
(N.Z.) Ltd.
The company has about 1385 acres
of vineyards under cultivation in South
Australia; at Kalimna about 800 acres;
Modbury about 200 acres; Auldana and
Magill, in the Adelaide foothills, about
235 acres; and at Coonawarra, about
150 acres. In New South Wales there are
estates at Pokolbin, about 110 acres, and
Southridge 50 acres. The new Dalwood
Estate at Wybong Park, near Muswell-
brook, acquired in 1960, will add 1100
acres when it is completely brought
under cultivation by the early 19705.
This will increase the company’s wine-
growing acreage by more than 70 per-
cent in a significant swing away from
South Australia to N.S.W. (which is
by far the biggest market for the com-
pany and which appears to be becom-
ing its centre of growing as well as
merchandising activity )( The com-
pany expects considerable economies to
come from relying less on buying wine
from co-operatives and using more of
its own production. It is way ahead of
Lindemans on this score.
The new Dalwood Estate at Wybong
Park was officially opened by the late
Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, in February,
1967. When finally completed, includ-
ing the building of an underground
winery, the Estate will have cost Pen-
folds almost $2 million and will pro-
duce about 700,000 gallons of high-
quality table wine (the “growth” end
of the business) a year, providing about
20 percent of Penfolds’ current volume


Absolute Security
for Your Investment
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
51%
per annum for
10 or 15 Years
53*7 per annum for 7 Years
8/o
Unconditionally guaranteed by the
N.S. W. Government
HIGHER INTEREST. Interest rates are the highest for a Government-
Guaranteed security.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY. Interest payments every 6 months and full
repayment of principal at maturity are Government-Guaranteed.
CASH APPLICATIONS may be made in full or by instalments; pay
10% deposit on application, and the balance by 30th April, 1968.
CONVERSIONS. Holders of two Loans maturing on Thursday, Ist
February - Nos. 190 (54%) and 343 (54%)-are invited to convert
to the new Loan.
OPPORTUNITY FOR TRUSTEES. An Authorised Trustee Investment
in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania, the Loan is an
approved security for Trustees of Pension and Superannuation Funds
wishing to qualify for Taxation Concessions.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited; Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited; The National Bank of Australasia Limited; Rural Bank of New
South Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the Board’s offices.
For Prospectus and further details, 'phone 2-0648 in Sydney
or 2-5391 in Wollongong
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
29.1003
and between 10 and 15 percent by five
years’ time.
The accounting statistics are:
S’ooo
1963 1964 1965 1966 1967
O rdinary capital 2,504 2,504 2,504 2,504 2,504
Ord. s’holders
funds 10,742 10,802 11,023 11,220 13,411
Total assets 12,310 12,206 13,027 12,985 16,702
Pre-tax profit 852 584 831 764 911
Earned for ord. 504 333 432 480 527
Ord. dividends 282 312 313 313 313
Pre-tax profit to
total assets % 6.9 4.8 6.4 5.9 5 5
Dividend 'payout
ratio % 56.0 93.9 72.5 65.2 59.4
Tax to pre-tax
profit % 40.1 30 0 48.0 37 2 42 2*
Proprietorship
ratio % 83.3 82.3 80 2 77.2 76.1
Earnings per share
(cents) 10 1 6.7 8 6 9.6 10.5
Dividends per share
(cents) 5.6 6 2 6 .2 6.2 6 2
Share price—iH'igh
(50c par) 218 215 185 203 360
Low 1.28 142 130 150 1.60
*'lncludes deferred tax provision.
A significant change in the com-
pany’s accounting took place during the
year, when it changed the basis of
valuing its stocks from below cost to
actual raw material cost. This lift of
$2.7 million (or more than 90 percent)
in stocks did not provide any artificial
boost to profits in 1967; on the contrary,
it .was used entirely in adding $1.5
million to shareholders’ funds in a stock
revaluation reserve and $1.2 million
to liabilities as a provision for deferred
taxation. The year’s profit actually
suffered from a $103,000 deduction for
deferred tax. The old system had meant
an unreal drain on the company’s
profits when it was stocking up heavily,
followed by an artificial boost to profits
when these stocks were eventually sold
some years later. The new system re-
duces these extremes (although it does
not alter the actual profit earned per
gallon of wine sold) and gives a more
realistic view of the company’s perform-
ance year by year. It will not involve
much change in the company’s future
published profits except to make them
less subject to violent movement in
any years it is obliged to take in stock
at a much faster or slower rate (for
seasonal reasons, for example) than its
sales are rising.
On the current share price ($3.55)
the 50c share shows a dividend yield of
only 1.8 percent and the price-earnings
multiple is a very high 33.3. Linde-
mans, the only other wine stock on the
market, has a dividend yield of 1.9
percent at the current price, and the
P/E multiple is only slightly more
modestly pitched at 27.8, which may
take into account the fact that Pen-
folds is well ahead of Lindemans in
owning a much larger proportion of its
sources of supply. Penfolds seem to be
poised for a take-off in profits which
should prove very promising to share-
holders.
SUMMING UP: It may seem odd
to put Penfolds in almost the same
investment class as BHP, which on the
current share price has a dividend yield
of 1.2 percent and a price/eaming ratio
of 50. However, if you want capital
growth in a consumer industry, Pen-
folds is a good bet. Perhaps Penfolds’
old slogan: “1844 to Evermore” may be
right, after all.


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
3
4
PER ANNUM
8 AND 10 YEARS
i*
PER ANNUM
7 YEARS
0
0
PER
ANNUM
YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on
the printed form referred to in and attached to the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms of application should be obtained
from:
BROKERS
lan Potter &. Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey, (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
SDN. 2
Mining
Those investment portfolios
THERE ARE SEVERAL long-
established mining companies which
own considerable investment portfolios
and it may be perhaps more than
chance that only one of these companies
has to date been able to successfully
establish a second mining operation, in
contrast to the many other companies
which have maintained a high rate of
investment in the mining industry as
such. Broken Hill South, for example,
spent more than $9 million on explor-
ing and developing the old Cobar
copper leases acquired in 1957, and, in
fact, sold some of its investments in
order to provide finance for this pro-
ject, which will give it a very greatly
extended life in mining after its reserves
of lead-zinc ore at Broken Hill are com-
pletely depleted in some years’ time.
Over its very long life at Broken
Hill, North Broken Hill has accumu-
lated investments which account, based
purely on cost, for about $2.00 per
share. About half of these investments
(on cost values) are listed on Stock
Exchanges, while the others are in such
industrial giants as Metal Manufac-
tures Limited, Alcoa of Australia Pty.
Limited, and include substantial share-
holdings in companies associated with
the mining industry to some extent,
such as the Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Company of Australia (at
Port Kembla) and the Broken Hill
Associated Smelting Pty. Ltd. (at Port
Pirie). Last year income from listed
investments having a Stock Exchange
value of over $26 million amounted to
almost $1 million, while income from
unlisted investments amounted to al-
most $2 million. If a yield of 5.0 per-
cent is considered reasonable, these in-
vestments can be valued at some $6O
million, equivalent to $3.30 per share.
North Broken Hill’s prospective life at
Broken Hill is, of course, much longer
than Broken Hill South can expect, but
at the rate which North Broken Hill is
adding to its investments (from $22
million to $33 million in the past five
years) this company appears to place
greater faith in its future as an inves-
tor than as a miner—and at stable
metal prices its investment income can
be expected to exceed mining income
within a few years, particularly when
Alcoa of Australia Pty. Ltd. begins to
pay dividends.
Loloma, too, is also in the position
of being sought after for its investments
rather than for its future as a mining
company. From its gold mining opera-
tions in Fiji, which began in 1937, the
company was able to accumulate quite
a sizable portfolio of investments and
these became its sole assets after opera-
tions ceased in 1960, when it disposed
of all its Fijian assets to Emperor Gold
Mining Company Limited. It was not
until its Fijian activities had ceased
that the company really began pros-
pecting in Australia, although it had
made a joint arrangement with United
Uranium and King Island Scheelite in
1956-7. It is one of life’s coincidences
that the largest part of its investment
income came from shares held in Great
Boulder Gold Mines and, although this
company has had to cease payment of
dividends after incurring losses on gold
mining at Kalgoorlie, the value of its
shares is higher now than ever before
and accounts for about $1.50 for each
Loloma share. Shares in other com-
panies held by Loloma have a market
value of around $2.00 per Loloma
share, giving an “asset backing” of
some $3.50, against the market price of
$3.00. Here again it does not seem very
likely that, for some time at least, the


Oeneral
Credits
LIMITED
s2,ooo,oooDebenture Stock
(Second Ranking)
(Ranking for payment of principal and interest after Debenture
Stock secured by a Trust Deed dated 6th September, 1955,
between the Company and The Union-Fidelity Trustee Company
of Australia Limited.)
a
O
/?s
YEA
to
TO
6
Other rates and terms available
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed
with the Prospectus which may be obtained from: —
• lan Potter & Co., Underwriters • All recognized
stockbrokers • All branches of General Credits
• All branches of the Commercial Bank of Australia
Limited
General
Yjredits
LIMITED
277 William St., Melbourne, 3000
Ph. 60 0241
283 Clarence Street, Sydney, 2000
Ph. 29 3041
2393/F
company will be highly valued for rea-
sons other than its investments, as its
attempts at commencing new mining
ventures in Australia have not as yet
met with great success.
King Island Scheelite now appears to
have been presented with an oppor-
tunity for increasing its investment in
mining after a long period in which in-
vestment in other shares seemed to be
more attractive to the company than ex-
ploration. Investments in the company’s
books (at cost) have grown in the past
ten years from $779,000 to $2,163,000
(in 1966), while during the same period
the company spent only $lOO,OOO on
the exploration of outside properties.
Its joint venture with United Uranium
and Loloma was suspended in 1959
and exploration with Australian Gold
Development N.L. in New Guinea in
1959-1960 also led to nothing. During
1961 and 1962 the company suffered
the effects of low tungsten prices and
no exploration expenditure was made
in these years, but in 1963-1964 a total
of $17,500 was spent, among other
things, on the investigation of tin bear-
ing areas at Walwa, in Victoria, again
in conjunction with Australian Gold
Development N.L. The results of this
investigation indicated that the deposits
were not of economic value and the
option held over the area was relin-
quished. In spite of high tungsten prices
in the past couple of years little outside
exploration has been made except the
evaluation by diamond drilling of lat-
eritic nickel deposits near Beaconsfield
(north of Launceston, Tasmania),
where results to date have shown only
low grades. It was not until 1965 that
the company resumed diamond drill-
ing on its own orebody.
The mine itself is on the coast of
King Island, in the Bass Straight, and
is at present worked by open-cut
methods. Mining began approximately
500 feet above sea level and the ore-
body extends to some 250 feet below
sea level. The present open-cut mine
has a life of seven years at present rates
of mining, and the diamond drilling
carried out in the past two years has
indicated an extension of the orebody,
which exists for at least another 600
feet and which is richer in metal con-
tent than the ore being mined at
present. These additional reserves
would have to be the subject of an
underground mine rather than the
present open-cut style of working and
would involve considerable capital ex-
penditure to develop.
It is one of the vagaries of fate that
the company itself holds no leases on
King Island other than those covering
its present scheelite mine, and the
island itself is presently the subject of
keen interest by other companies. A tin
sluicing operation is in its initial stages,
operated by Hawkes Alluvial Tin
Limited, which is to produce about 44
tons of tin concentrates per annum
while Mount Costigan Mines Limited
THE BULLETIN, January 27, 1968
of Canada has quite promising results
from preliminary sample testing for
beach sands at Naracoopa. In January
1966, Mount Costigan obtained average
grades of 4.87 percent rutile and 7.14
percent zircon from a zone containing
82,000 tons of sand and is continuing
to determine the possibilities of com-
mercial deposits. These grades com-
pare quite favorably with those being
mined by Associated Minerals (0.6 per-
cent rutile, 0.57 percent zircon) and
Rutile and Zircon Mines (Newcastle)
Limited (0.3 percent rutile, 0.2 percent
zircon). Certainly while tungsten prices
remain near their current level, King
Island Scheelite runs no risk of being
considered as an investor. A year ago
its share portfolio had a market valua-
tion of about $1.25 per share and in-
creases in the mining section of this
portfolio, which then accounted for
over 40 percent, would have brought
this up to something less than $2.00
per share, while investment income at
slightly more than $lOO,OOO falls far
short of the $1.26 million earned last
year from mining operations.


Share
Par
| Div.
Year
I Week
Fri.
1 1967
Turnover
I Yield %
Value| cents
ago
ago
close (High ) Low
Syd.
| Melb.
[ Div.|Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
i 1.07i; 2 0O
2.28
2.00,|
1.20
61,800) 49,5001
Ampol 'Exp.
.50 t
1.16
1.85
1 93
2.150
1.04
25,700
23,400'
•
Assoc. IVUn.
.50
i 20
6.20
7.00
7.00
7.10
5.10
8,450
4,600
2.9
5.4
A.O.G.
.50
«
1.80
, 2.05
2 00
2.75|
1.45
12,050
10,700
B. H. South
.50
9
3 ,10
5 50
5.561
6 08
2.57
53,1001567,100
1.4
i 1.9
C.lR.A.
.50
■ 8
5 26
, 11.30
11.3‘0i 13.001
4.95
13,250, 17,100
.7
1.7
C'wealth M'in.
'1.00
. 10
2 75
■ 3 65
3.60
3.30|
2 «l
3,800
900
2.8
3.1
Cons. Gold
,1.00
' HO
4.38
6 86
6.44
6.64j,
3 80
35,150
, 18,750
1.6
1 2.9
Hamers ley
.50
'
8.44
8.30
9.50i
4.06
11,650
27,0001
K. 1. Scheel
.50
30
3.20
5.66
5.60
4. SO|
2 501 11,550
'30,900
Mount Usa
.50 i
5
4.13
4.95|
4 '85
5 46,
3.50
45,000
44,600
1.0
2.7
Mt. iLyelil
.25
8.25
1.58
1 80'
1.85
1 871
1 28
65,900
31,300
3.4
9.1
Mt. Morgan
1.00 1
22.5 :
3.44
8.60
9 10
6.54
2.68
11,150
16,150
New B.H.
.54 i
32.4
4.50
8 80
9 00
9.601
4.04
15,450'
20,400
3.0
4.8
North B.'H.
1.00 1
1 25
4.16
7.60
7.80
8.10)
3.21
25,200
35,900
3.2
4.5
Oil Search
.50 i
.18
.481
.57
■ 54|
.12
404,400
351,7001
Remisoo
.50
,7.9b
6.501
6.20
8.30)
5.50
350
2,130
Santos
.25 1
1 85
2.20!
.2.10
.50
.09
2,000
1,200
West. Min.
.50 1
15
6.75
34.80!
38.00 30.00 26.50
15,590
30,300
.3
.4
Woodside
. 50 !]■ 1
.92,
1.63
1.72
1. &6 |,
.60
158,7501142,400
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.'50
1 4.3
1.0311 .851
.80,
1.03
.80
11,400
6,800
5.4
9.1
,1.00
. 112.5 1
2.25
; 1.83j
1.91
2.60
1.70
10,100
1,100
6 5
8.3
.50 ,
4
! .711
.72
. 80
.87
.66
3,100
2,800
5.0
6.0
.50
5
11.69
- 1 491
1 50
1.74
1.37! 1
3.3
5.9
1.00 1
10 1
1 1.98
2.110
2.101 2.10
1.73 2,5001
4.8
7.5
.50 !
'6
i 1.82
a. 53,
1.51
1.83,
1.45
28,000
4,000
4.0
8.5
.50
.74
.501
.46
.80
.41
8,900
1,600
5.8
.50
5
.611 1 .921
.94
1.23
.571169,800
195,400
r
f-3
6.4
.50
5
1 .6111, .63!*-
.61
.76
.55
24,000
49,000
8.2
10.6
A.-P.C.iM.
.50
. 5
1.311 1.H7I
1.15
1.35
.88
7,100
2,600
4.3
6.5
1.00'
9
1.30
1.411
1.35
1.53.
1.28
1,900
37,400
67
8.9
A.IN.Z. 'B'ank
2.14
1 25.7
6 25|' 7.70|
/. /0
8.60
5.35
600
2.9
5.4
A.lC'.'K
1.00
10
2.8311' 3.151
3.10
3.80
2.80
30,716
34,700
3-2
6-5
2 00
15
4.40
3.40
3.30,;
4.60
3.00
800
1,600
4.8
8 2
A.G.C.
.50 1
7.5
1.661 ISO',
1.811 2.02
1.47
3,900
9,000
4.1
7.3
A. Newtlpri'nt
2.00
20 1
3.80
4.001
3.801 4.110
3.35
1,000
3,800
5.3
5.7
A.'P. M.
1.00 1
9
1.617'
l.'44|
1.40
1.74
1.28
19,650
32,200
6.4
8-3
A-usit Oh em
1.00 '
110
1.921 1.7011
1.60
1 . 9'3
1.54
4,9001
1,600
6.3
6.8
.50 1
5
1.07
1.30'i
1.23
1.45
.85
16,400
23,300
4.1
7.1
A.U.C.
11.00 '
10 1
3.07
3.80|
3.80
4.17
3.05i
2.6
9.8
1.00
110
2.30
2.451
2.50
2.55
2.02'| 2,400| 1,300
4.0
71
Bank .N.'S.W.
2.00
1 20
1, 5.321 6.541
6.76
6.82
5.00
25,925
11,700
3.0
f-1
.50
5 1
:1.80
1.851
1.84
2.10
1.15
1,2501
2-7,
5.7
1.00 ;
15 !
2.86
2.50;!
2.50
2.90
2.33
3,200
. 1
6.0
13.3
B.'M .1.
.50 1
7.5 1
11.561
1 5S|
1.38
1.77
1.20
19,700
4 -Z
6.8
.50 1
7
1.22,
1.401
1.44;
2.06,
2.00
6,900:
4. 9
12.5
.50
, 110
, 2.01;
,1.781
1. /a
2.33
1.75
29,400
21,300
'5.6; S. 5
1.00
,6 1
1.85
, a .6.21
l./ai
1.85
1.30
4,800
3*. 4|1
.50 1
5 1
.60
• 76,
.73'
.80
.56
9,700
9,600
6.8
11.8
.50
7.5
I.6OI1 1.0.4
1.16
1.70 1
1.14
15,550
7,700
5.2
8.2
a. 00 1
112
2.371
2.601
2.90
2.92'
2.24
39,300
20,600
4. a
6.7
2.00
19 1
6.56
16.25! 16.45,17.60
6.201181,650:136,800
1.2
2.0
.50 |
6.251
.78
11.03.1
1.03
1.08
• 76
5,400
2,700
6.0
17.6
a. 00
10
3.Sell 3.651
3.52
4.20
3.50
112,800
6,000
2.8
8.0
C.U.B. "Z”
a. 00 1
113 !
3.28
3.651
3.63
3.70
2.90
2,800
11,400*
3 .67 6.4
.50 ■
8
2.21,
a. 951
1.95
2.30
1.89
18,4501: 7,3O0[' 4.1
7.7
..50 i
' 5
.70
.78
.80
1.02
.58'
5,400
5,000
6.3
12.3
1.00 ,
18 1
5.88
7.351
7.40
7.12
■5,66
3,750
800
2.4
5.2
.50 1
6.25
11.80
1.681
1.72
2.02
1.42
14,000|
5.6
9.7
.50 1
7.5 1
.84
1 .731
.73,
.87
■59
28,200
3,100
10.3
11.7
,1.00 '
7 1
1.58
2.12,
2.05
2.20
,1.34
12,9001 122,600
3.4
9.8
.50
5.5 •
1.24
1.211)
1.24
1.26
1.11,
85,7001108,100
4.4
6.6
1.00
12
2 88
4 53 j
4.40
5.42
2.78
46,102
40,400
2.8
4.9
C.:A .GjA
a. 00 -
10
1.416
1,601
1.66
1.60
11.34
8,700
5,300
6.0
9.1
C.1B..A 1 .
1.00
10
2.08'
3-. 001'
2.88
3.08
1.92
2,600
18,100
3.5
5.2
C.'B.iC.
1.00
10
2 28
2 851
3.00
2.97
2.09
20,000
3,000, 3.3
6.9
.50 1
5
1.54
1.601
1.63
1.83
1.23
2,700
6,1001 3.1
5.8
C.'I.G
1.00
11
2.35
3.001
3.00
2.80
2.05
4,150i
3,900
3.7
6.7
.50 1
2’. 5
.36'
. 411
.39
2.51
.35
18,700
16,900
6.4
14.5
. 50 '
10
2 50
4.35|
4.40
4.30
2.45
6,100
2.3
4.3
a . 00 t
9
1 163
2 . 141
2.25
2.25,
1.60
4,400
8,500
4.0
6 4
1.00
16
.461' -501
.53
.66
.42
1,800
1,100
11.3
9.2
l'.OO
14
5 521- 4.20’i
4.251 6 00
4 00
2,800
i 3.3 1 6.4
1.00 '
8
4.70
2.551
2.50
2,. 56
2.30
3.21 10.9
Oust. Credit
.50 1
5 !
.791' a. 111
1.111' 1.112
. 76
22,800
17,000
4.5
- 10.5
Cyclone
•1.00
1 10
, a. 40,1 1-231.
1.28)i 11.,68
1.123
3,200
36,000
7.8| 9.9
12.14 1
25.7
5.00
4.601
4.58
5.76
4.40
11,200
'
4.8
8.2
D.F.C.
12.00
25
6 . 00
•5.161
5.00
6 . 30,
5.20
100
1
5.0
10.6
a. 00
ilO
1.70
a . 52
1,31
1.921
1.40
13,300
8,700
6.6
9 7
Dunlop
1.00 !
8.5
1.30
1.86;
I.881
1 . 92
1.23
37,250
34,000
4.3
6.5
E..M.I.
.50
9
2.301;, 3.001
3.00
3.001
2.20
3,700
2,000
3.01 7.7
E.Z. ind.
1.00
1 14
2 53
3 32;
3.43
4.43
2.07
20,450
26,200
4.1 5 4
a . 00
HI
■ 2.60
2.28.1
2 30,
2.71
2.08,
20,150
8,000
4 a
,10.9
Elec. “ l B”
1.00
7
.591 .851
.81
.95
.50
11,000
19,200
8.6
14 0
.50
. 5
1 .45
.681
.68
.89
.42
14,200
‘30,600! i 7:41 9.3
E.S.A.
2 14
21.4
5.20
7.50,
7.20'i. 7.50
5.40
2,500
500
■ 2.5
■ 6 3
Evans Deakin
.50 :
6.2
,1.25
• 56 1
.531 ,1.23
.54
■7,400
tll.&i 1*7.3
.'50
1 8 5
2.55
2.30|
2.30
2.63,
2.05
20,750
1,000
* 3.7" 5.4
1.00
6
1.42'
11.221
1.18,
1.56
1.12.
3,800
200,1 5.1" 6.5
.50
5
.49
1 .551
.51
.61!
.44
20,200
26,500
- 9.8. 12.8
.50
7.5
1I.6I
. 1.80 r
I.8O1
2.10
1.55
4,650
1,800
4.2
1 6.9
il.00
17.5
3.80
- 4.60,!
4.60
5.55; 3.60
2,000
■ 3.8, 6.3
.50
4
.60
■ 7,1.1
.701 .72
.51
3,300
28,600( 5.7! 9.7
2.00
112
' a. 65
11 13
1.14
1.57
1.10
3,6501 200
10.5 17.0
.50
4.5
.75
.711
• 71,
.80,1 .57
4,100
10,800
7.01 14.2
.50
; no
2.20
11.801
1.75
2.301 1.74
3,600
5,100
5.7
8.1
.50
6.6
’ 11 . 71
2.30,
2 . 35
2.54, 1.56
18,000
5,0001 2.8
- 5.5
. .50
.241 .18
.18
.25
: .111 9,900] 21,000
1.00
10
5 20
4.101
3.90
5.35<
4.25
3,050
6,600
2.6
7.0
.50
15
4 59
5.28|
5.32
5.52
4.10
3,700
11,250
2.8
4.2
.50
.39
.621
.61
.64
.34
42,750
15,700
9.1
1.00
' 12 5
2.981 3.501
3.50
3.75
2.80
2,400
10,700
3.6
7.6
.50
1 5
.96
1 .671
.67
1.02
.65
2,000
9,400
7.5
10.4
I.A'.C.
.50
1 6
.8161 1.01 j
1.00
1.06
.85
12,900
14,5001 6.0
10.8
IOC.I. A.IN.Z.
1.00
7.5*
1.901 1 971
1 . 93
2.21
1.72
34,400
20,700
3.8
5.1
Inter. Resist
.50
5
.86
.511
.52] 1.10
.50
11,300
8,100
9.6
10.2
.50
6.7
1.471 1 191
1.18
1.51
1.14
58,800
15,000
r 5.7
9.9
Jones, hie/nry
1.00
, T2 ,
4.07
2 ,851
2.55
4.20
2.50
16,500
4,800
4.7
1.1.1
.50
'
; .,20l|! .181
.10;. .24
.15
2,100
5,000
,
10.3
Kelvinator
.50
, 7.5
a.98;. 11.45;
1.50
1.99
1.35
3,100
6,500
5.0
12.4
Koitaki
.50
) '6 2
1.50
.701
.70
1.50
.60
100
■ 8.9
15.3
Lend Lease
.50
5.5I| .85!. 1-10!
1.01
1.25
,80| 7,725| 2,200] 5.4| 10.0
Share
Par i Oiv
Value| cents
Year 1
ago [
(Veek 1 Pri. | 1967
ago | dot* |HlQh Lew
| Turnover
Syd. | Melb
1 Yield %
Diy.lEarn.
Life Savers
50 -
3 If 2.50'
2 24
2 22|
2 75
2 20,
7.800, 1,300
3 6
7.7
Lysaghl, J,
11 .00
12 <
3 60
3 30
4 OO
2 50
3,400.
400
3 6
6 4
M.L.C.
2 00
31.6
8 28|
11 70 12 00,13 35
3 12| 3.680
16,170
2.6
2 7
Maj^hickvHle
50
i 7. S
1 031
.67.
E6|
1 24
90l 24.650
3.000
8 7
12 5
Mauri Bros,
50
5 2
2 OY,
3.97;
2.00
2.32
1 .971, 17,750
4,400
2.6
5 3
M. N'ickless
1 00
12 5 i
2 89
3.14
3 05;
3 15, 2.55l 4.000
11,100
4 1
5 5
MdMwraith, J.
SO
7.5
1 20!
1 021
1 02|
1 25
1.00
6,060
6,900
7.4
9 9
WIiMaqum
a. oo
14
2.75
2.78,
2 65
3 10
2.48
5501 700
5 >
6 3
Miller, >R. W.
1.00
10
OBt!
1 23;
1.25:
1.68
1.231 22,200
10.800
3 0
14.9
Minster
11.00
20
.2 90
ll.JOi
1.17] 3 30
1 14
10,600
22,600
8.5
19.5
Morns, iPhiHp
a .00
•id '
3 '38
4 oa
4 26|
5 36'
3.53
2,400
16,000
2 6
12.2
Myer
.50
10
3 09,
4 80,
4.70|
4 65, 3.03
50,050
146,300
2 2
4 9
Myttons
so
1 41
1 20,
lit;,
1.45; 1 14
1.100
5.600
S 2
9 5
N.Z. Forvit
1 00
V
2 4B,'
2 21
2 22'!
2 75] 2.20
l.osa
3.200
2 7
0 1
Nefc. Bank
1 ,00
, 10 '
2 .161
3,07
3.12,
3 62
1 93
23.450
9,700
3.2
5 9
Nat. Gomnol.
50
10 l
2 45|
2.40',
2 25
2 55| 2.151 3.050
6,300
4 4
9 2
Nat. Oain-y
2.25
28
35.501
39,00 29 00 40 50:31.50
300
4 5
7.8
News
50 ■
6 .
1. Mr
2.72,
2 sal
2 75
1 56
1,100
400
2 1
6 4
N.Z. Ins.
1 .00
12
2.00
2 50,
2 50]
3 OO 2.32
'
3 U
7 2
Mylex
M
5
,83).
93,
.94';
1.02
. 701 7,'lSO,! 15,000
5.3
6.3
Olympic
DO
J. 1
. 72'!
.79,
.ei'i
. 92,i . 66
9.000
22.600
6.2
10.4
0 .P.'S. M
1 OO
16
4 .,601
4 ,80;
4 70,
5 80 l 4.45
400,
3 4
5 6
Overseas
'50
6 5
1 311
1.70,
1.751
1.72
1.27
4,3001 21,600
3 7
b.7
P.G.H
.'50
i 7 '
1 2411
76|
■ 75|
1.24
.72
20,2501
9.3i 14.3
Penfolds
,50 if 6.25
a m
3 58,
3.60|
3.35| 1.77
10.7601,
1.7
2 7
Peko
50
11.25
■ 2 42 ii
9.28;
9.16,
6.90; 2 01
75.025; 105,2701 1.2
2 5
Perp, Trustees
2.00
18
3.50|
3 10,
3.15]
3.55
3.0C
9001
5 7
6.7
Petersville
20
2,5
52 f
.35
■371
. 54! .35
29,900
89,400
6 8
8 4
Peters, W.A.
.50
6.25
1 . 70,'
1.31
1.18;
1.73
1.02',
5 3
7 9
Pioneer Cone.
■30
7.5
1 .151
1 . 41
1.40,
1 57
l.lll 26,7001 19.100
5 4
9.9
Prestige
.50 i
6 25
• 75|
.93;
.92,
.4/
.751 3,300
1,900
6 8
13.2
Provincial Tr.
.50
S.5
1 00 1
1 09
1 02|
1.16' .92 4,200
5 4 8.7
Pye
.50
5
.95;
90,
.90]
135
.661
9.600
•1,400
5 6
13 9
Q’lend Cemcni
2.00
1 22
7 90,
5 80,
5 93 1
9 05
5 SO, 1,150
3 4
5.3
Q''land Ins,
11.00
12 5 ; 4 10 1
5.35;
5 SO]
P 30
3.90| 4.200!
2 3
6.4
Q'land Press
a.oo i
15 i
4.9&I
4.65.
4 001
5 23
4.30!
l,6O0| 3.1
i 6.1
Reed
.50
5
13.63|'
2 10|
2 10|
2 1 b
1 45
2,0001
3 3,
6.3
Repcd
50
7.5
2 Il4l!
2.70;
2 2®|
2. 52
1.971 80,300
52,800
3.3
5.3
50
7.5 '
1
1 83,
1 70]
2.00
, 1 .70
1,000
10,500
4.4
6.5
Rothmans
1 OO
14
2 50
2.00
2.10|
2 67-i 1 6.311 19,200
14.100
6.7
9.3
S A. Rubber
.50
5.6
97.
82',
621
1 071 .80
/oo
, 2,100
6 8
10 4
Schweppes
.50 '
5.5
1.70,'
,1 56
1 62
171| 1 40
12,000
5,100
34
, 5,5
Shelleys
.50
7.5
3.oa,
2.90
2 90'.
3 02
2 90) 200
•2 6
o.l
Simpson Pops
.50
' 1
.25'
.29'
.28,
.301 .241 4,000|
3.6
10 5
Sleigh, H C.
■so
5
.56,
. 70;
. 70>|
.89; .55: 25.150, 28,800
7.1
9. 1
Smith, iHow.
a .oo
10 '
2 6&|
'3 25
3-40,
4 20
2 52 9,600
4,300
12 9
5.8
Softwood
1 00
1 10
2 30,
1 95|
1 90,
2 48 ; 1.78
3,200; 1,700
5.3; 9 ?
Sth. 8rit, Ins.
a . oo i
14
3.7a!
3.90,
3.90|
4 00
3.15
6001
2.9
5.9
Steamships
.50
5 '
,3.04
.51]
. 57,
1.06' 561 13,700
1.300
3 6
16 2
Stedman, J.
.50
7.5
■ 3.871,
,1.50
1.50,
2 00, 1 5C
3.2001
■ 5-0
6.0
Swan Brew.
.50
<6.5
2 37,1
3 32,
3,5t)|
3 60| 2 22
23,400
50,400
2.0
3.3
Tar,ax
.'50
5
1.15;'
.80.
.75
1.17| .75
200
7,200
6.Tf 7.4
Taubmans
50
B
1 071
95;
90,
1 15, .83
3,200, l.OOOi; 8 9] 10 1
TV Oorp.
1 .00
20 i
3 40f
4 30:
4.30,
4 »
3 1S| 800,1 900
4.7
7.0
T.hiess
50
5
3 .15;.;
4.50]
4.60,
5 10. 1 02|176,550
i
1.0
4 5
Tooheys
.50
s.5
1 0&|
1 16,
1.161
1 20| 95
42,150
3.9; 6 2
Tooth
a.oo
16.25
4i.86,
5 ao.|
5.04,
5.761 4.76
14,700
1,600
Z e
3.9
U.1E..1B. Ind.
.50
5.5
11.20,
751
.75,
1.32
.751
5 9
11.5
Union Card
a oo
14 l
4.621
5 65.
5 80;
6.20i 4,4001 400
2 4 5,4
Walker, F. J.
.1.00
12 .5
3 69,
1.22,
1.20;
1.73
'1.031 1,600,
U ,,-.4
10 4
6.2
Waltons
.50
6 25. 1 .02;
BO
01,
1, 05, .75] 27,05J| '13,100| 7 T| 10.7
Webster, A. G
50
7 5
1 38,|
1 00}
1.00
1 051 .99
,1,4001.
7 5
13.7
Woolworths
.50
6
1 31
l.lb|
1.171
1.33] 1.13] 90,170] 47,600. 5.1] 7.0-
SHARE PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY |
MELBOURNE
Classification
l Week
I
Week |
Friday
1 ago
last 1
ago |
iast
All ordirrar es .
. i 453.39
454 93 ii
.154.52 ■;
1*55.95
50 leaders
. 1
177.31 ;
17® .44
Banks
220.89 ,
224 71 1,
146.97 ,]
145.34'
Other finances .
. . 535.52 i
537.13 i
12.38 ij
82 St
Pastoral
. | 222.20
222.00 il
lib All 1
lit 41
Transport
. 1 465.20 ■
466.21 |
92.67 |
92.45
Retail Merchants
333.23
334.94 .
101.93 ||
1102.43
Services
<
i
54.68 |
55.20
Foods
. 1 203.30 ■
20*5.25 i
117,4 7 |
118,50
Textiles .
. ! • 97.27
194.87
81.20 i(
81.43
Chemicals
. , 352.23 i
346.63 i!
S2 41 ;
62-50
Electricals .
| 446.53 -
448.63
67.68 i|
67.73
Paper
f (
108.55 i
ICS. 35
Building
. 1 760.59
743.41 ,
100.1® ■]
100 67
Automotive
. 1 790.09
323.29
87.38 |
91 87
Fuel Power .
198.68
133 59 ;
Steel eng'nee-'og
; 1133.21
1146.95 .!
256.25 il
258.00
Non-ferrous
.2261.80 'J224&.66 i[
4(53.74
460.21
| Olu
SUGAR
1 Week
r = =•
Week i
Friday
1 ago
last i
ago i
last
BrsDar.e
. ij 234 20
231 03 i
102,76
99 34
Melbourne
1 200.56
212.28
1
THE WEEK'S TURNOVER
SYDNEY
1
MELBOURNE
•[INDUSTRIAL!
.MINING |
INDUSTRIAL!
MINING
| Sales | Value |
Sales
| Value |
Sales | Value |
Sales | Value
1 Vol. | 5 1
Vol. |
5 1
Vol. | 5 |
Vol. | S
1 1000 | 1000 1
1000
| 1000
| 1000 | >000 |
1000 | 1000
Week 'before . .
. . . . ,| 3903 i| '802‘1 i|
5495 i|
5689
| 3936 110677 1
3592 | 7276
Week to Friday . .
. . . . >j 425® .’10013 1
5119® i|
7059
| 4272 i|. 8752 l|
3182 j .6651
OVERSEAS INDEXES
1
London
New York ] Tokyo
| "Financial Times
[ Dow Jones |D. Jones
1 Inds.
Secs. |
Gold
| Inds. | Rails | Avge.
Jan. 3. 1967
313.4
78.311
51.9
786.411 205.1611444.35
1967 hiigh
415.5
81 851
68.4
934.351 272.99|1506.27
1967 low
310.3 '
78.27i|i
47.3 i
791.14| 205.3111253.24
Month ago
386.4
76.2811
65.5
888.35: 231.00|11279.59
Week ago
■ 390.0
76.58
.65.8
898.981 237.06 1314.47
Latest
404.3
75.08
68.7
'880.32 ' 233.091322.99
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
Speculators have certainly spread their interest over the whole
range of metals and oils, and especially since no deterrent factor
appears to stem from the British economic measures; industrials
were being allowed to drift somewhat at the close. BHP, of
course, had little difficulty in putting on 20 cents to reach
$16.45, while Western Mining leapt $3.20 to a peak $38.00.
Alleged takeover prospects sent New BH up 20 cents to $9.00;
CRA stayed at $11.30. Peko added another 88 cents and
Mount Morgan 50 cents. Bank of N.S.W. gained a prominent
22 cents, ending at $6.76; British Tobacco rose 30 cents.
YIELDS
0RD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY \
average dividend .. 5.39
MELBOURNE
dividend 4.81
earnings 7.72
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend 4 81
earnings 5.60
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3.52
earnings 6.78
C'WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short 4/6 4/6
Medium .... 5 06 5.06
Long .. .. 5.25 5.25


the
4
*
td
NO FIXED TERM
That’s Julie—and she’s a wise girl. She
knows an investment that earns 6% p.a.
net (current rate) appeals to most people.
NO FIXED TERM means your investment,
plus dividend, is readily available for
withdrawal. There are no deductions.
Your dividend is paid twice yearly.
Your security is backed by $3l million
assets. Write for brochure.
Funds guaranteed for
withdrawal up to
$lO,OOO per investor.
The progressive
building society
fm BUILDING
fund vM.
ton
ID,OOO m
ST. GEORGE &
CRONULLA
PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. WARD—General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: 36/38 Ormonde Pde.
Hurstville. Ph. 57 0201
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Ph. 28 2801
MIRANDA OFFICE: 551 The Kingsway.
Ph. 524 6466
PARRAMATTA OFFICE: 167 Macquarie St.
Ph. 635 4574
CHATSWOOD OFFICE: 39 Spring St.
Ph. 41 3570
BONDI JCTN. OFFICE: 450 Oxford St.
Ph. 38 3196
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office
Please send free comprehensive literature
to:
NAME
ADDRESS
BY4BO
THE LAND
Agrisearch
Something cheerful about wool
AFTER HEARING in deepening
gloom a series of prognostications over
the past few years warning of the early
demise of the wool industry, it is a
joyous relief to listen to contrary
opinion expressed by non-partisan
market researchers. Messrs. E. S. Mali-
kides and E. J. Waring of the Bureau
of Agricultural Economics have now
published the results of their long and
thorough analysis of the industry. The
very last sentence of their soberly
worded report in the Quarterly Review
of Agricultural Economics concludes
that “the (long-term) outlook . . .
appears reasonably favorable.” With
due allowance for the cautious language
used by economists, this statement can
be interpreted as a benediction.
Their argument, in a nutshell,
appears to be that demand will improve
as the personal incomes of people over-
seas rise. This is happening and will
continue, barring catastrophes such as
world-wide war or depression. The
price and quality of the man-made
fibres are not becoming more attrac-
tive. Our ability to produce wool rather
than drum up demand threatens to
become the critical issue in the years
ahead. The future success of the
industry, therefore, and the Australian
economy generally, rest squarely on
ourselves and especially on the decisions
and attitudes of the 100,000 farmers
who are woolgrowers. The main prob-
lems to be surmounted are the cost-
price squeeze, the effects of drought,
and the application of modern tech-
nology.
The high costs of production are not
leaving woolgrowers with sufficient sur-
plus income to improve their properties
or even command enough credit at rul-
ing interest rates. Since inflation seems
to be beyond control, the only alterna-
tive is to make available cheap, long-
term loans and encourage farmers to
accept permanent indebtedness as a
normal state of existence. The atti-
tudinal change may prove to be the
stumbling block. Many farmers are not
using the existing sources of loan money
to the extent that they should. It costs
about $l9 on the typical wheat-sheep
farm to enable another sheep to be
added to the flock. About 19 percent of
the farmers in the wheat-sheep zone
have net incomes of less than $2OOO.
Clearly, from this meagre amount, little
or nothing remains over and above for
plough-back investment after the farmer
has bought the necessities of life for
himself and family. The situation is not
a great deal easier in the high-rainfall
zone.
Drought still dominates the thinking
of the sheep farmer, and rightly so. It
took 15 years for the sheep population
in the pastoral zone to recover after
the 1943-46 drought, only to suffer
another severe cut-back in the 1965
drought. Even in the wheat-sheep zone
recovery took no less than eight years.
Stocking-rate policy will remain con-
servative until means are found for
softening the blows of drought. The
fear of drought has the industry
throttled, and any considerable increase
in wool production will occur only
after this terror has been conquered.
The record size attained by the
national flock in recent years is probably
not due to any great extent to the
adoption of higher stocking rates. While
it is true that many individual farmers
in the high-rainfall belt have increased
the grazing pressure on their properties,
it must be remembered that less than
a third of the total flock is carried in
this zone. Most of the additional sheep
being carried over the past twenty-five
years are depastured at traditional
stocking rates on wheat farms, new
lands, and in irrigation areas.
The most astounding findings made
by these economists is that, by and
large, sheep farmers have failed to
apply the technological advances of the
past two decades. They say there is
much truth in the statement that “prim-
ary producers are only farming half
as well as they know how to.”
Malikides and Waring speculate that
research which simply resolves biologi-
cal questions is not enough, and suggest
that the time has come for making big
changes in the type of agricultural re-
search being pursued. At the moment
they say it is motivated by the value
systems of urbanised scientists. What is
good for the farm may not necessarily
be good for the farmer, who likes to
keep his time and taxes in mind. They
believe that in future agricultural re-
search should be aimed largely at solv-
ing the problems and difficulties of
people as farm managers. The small
efforts that have been made along these
lines have already produced salutory
results. For example, woolgrowers who
have employed farm management ad-
visers have obtained returns to capital
almost double those obtained by a ran-
dom sample of farmers surveyed by the
BAE.


Kitching
at work
Pictures by ROBERT WALKER
Left, Thredbo Unlimited,
words Kitching used to sum
up his feelings about the
size of the job
Left, it’s all done with
mirrors, but at times Kitch-
ing felt he was painting
with four hands
Below, Kitching continually
repainted elements in the
design until they reached
the right scale
Sculptor Mike Kitching at
work decorating the base-
ment of the Alpine Hotel,
Thredbo
Right, an arrow to mark
the fire-escape, one of the
functional points in the
design
flight, an air-conditioning
duct and a network of water
pipes take on new shades
of meaning


The
widening
world of
EASTERN
Peter Boxall
our man
Jn Australia^
A
Peter Boxall
Eastern’s Regional Manager
Met a chap on Martin
Place . . . hadn’t seen him
for ages. “Peter Boxall!”
he shouted. “What have
you been doing these past
years?”
There were lots of things
to talk about ... he was
particularly interested in
the past year, my first with
Eastern. “Rather big over in
America aren’t they?” he
queried. “Second largest in
the world,” I said. "Mostly
in the eastern states” he
offered.
This led to a lengthy
explanation of the widening
world of Eastern exten-
sions of services into the
West Coast, flights to
Mexico, Puerto Rico,
Canada, Bermuda and the
Bahamas “and more sur-
prises to come in ’68!” I
told him.
Lots of people are Sur-
prised when they hear just
how big Eastern really is.
Want to know more? See
your Travel Agent ... he
knows Eastern well.
See how much better
--an airline can be.
©
EASTERN
AIR LINES
USA
EAII
ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Plumbing the depths
By SANDRA HALL
IN AN APT ANSWER to all those
who complain that modern sculpture
looks like plumbing, artist Mike Kitch-
ing has just turned plumbing into
sculpture.
He has been working in the gigantic
basement of the Thredbo Alpine Hotel,
converting unsightly loops of piping
and air-conditioning ducts into some-
thing aesthetic.
When extensions to the hotel were
completed last year, the architect felt
that something more ambitious than a
storeroom could be made from the
basement area, so Kitching, whose
work has been said to illustrate “a new
kind of beauty in things that were
created for non-aesthetic purposes,”
was commissioned to do just that.
His preliminary look at the room
was not encouraging. “It was full of
junk and hadn’t even been painted. I
didn’t have much of an idea what I
was going to do.”
But the room was cleared and
painted white, and Kitching, equipped
with 30 cans of a paint specially de-
veloped for a job of such proportions,
began his two-week commission.
“I must have climbed 2000 feet
just going up and down the ladder,”
he says reflectively. “I started with a
sketchbook, sketching before I worked,
but that was no good. It was so big I
just had to go ahead and see what it
looked like.”
He painted a mural designed to re-
late to the pipes and ducts, painted
these in intensely vivid colors, and ran
some into motifs. “The first and the
only idea I had before I started was
to develop one of the water pipes into
an arrow pointing to the fire-escape
door. I wanted to keep some of the
functional feeling about the room.
“Actually, I was doing in a two-
dimensional way what I’ve been doing
with my sculpture.”
The most recent Kitching sculptures,
exhibited last year at the Hungry Horse
Gallery, are glowing monuments to the
machine age, which dazzle in colored
perspex and are electrically wired_to
light up. The converted stable at
Randwick in which he lives and works
resembles a workshop as much as a
studio.
“I’ve almost electrocuted myself a
couple of times here,” he said. “Before
these, I used to work with paint and
aluminium, but although perspex is
much more expensive I prefer it be-
cause its color and transparency make
it a much more direct material.
“But it was a gamble. I spent a lot
of money on the exhibition, and if it
hadn’t sold I don’t know what I’d have
done.”
Nineteen-sixty-seven was a good year
for Kitching —he also won the
Achille Lauro Art Prize, a trip to
Europe, which he’s thinking of taking
at the end of February. Yet he has
no plans for a future in Europe, or
anywhere other than Australia.
“I’d like to do more work with
architects, as I did on the Thredbo
job, making a feature of the architec-
tural knick-knacks which hold a place
up. I find it stimulating to be limited
by the requirements of the building.
You have to stretch yourself more to
make the thing come off.
“In the room I’ve just done, the
ceiling had different levels and I had
to paint out the middle one to give it
the right proportion. Also, I’ve designed
it so that the renewal of the paint, if it
ever has to be done, will be a simple
process.”
Kitching, now 27, began as a
painter, moving to three-dimensional
paintings and finally to sculpture
through continuous experimentation
with new materials.
“I spend a lot of time going to
factories looking for machinery parts
that I can possibly use. Sometimes I’m
greeted with a mixture of puzzlement
and suspicion, because all that these
things represent to the people making
them is work. The idea of someone
wanting to create something beautiful
out of them just seems strange. But
I’ve got to know some of them and
they look out for things for me.”
Kitching is currently interested in
incorporating sound into his sculptures
not superimposed electronic noises
but sounds intrinsic to his materials.
“Sometimes the parts can be hooked
together in a way which makes them or
their motors hum. Or you can set up
friction between the various parts of
the sculpture have things rattling
against other things. It’s a more
authentic way of doing things than
using taped sounds that have no re-
lation to the sculpture itself. I’m in-
terested in objects that can be made
to be beautiful in themselves with
no references to anything else.”


You will
save money
when your staff visits Melbourne
by booking them into
The Victoria
Hotel
in the heart
of the city.
Over sli million has been spent
on making The Victoria Melbourne’s
leading hotel for businessmen.
Modern accommodation in the heart
of the city costs only $6.50 single,
$11.50 double (private bathroom $1
per person extra) with full breakfast
and free under-cover car parking.
The Victoria, Australia’s largest
hotel, is also the ideal venue for
sales conventions, company dinners,
cocktail parties.
Please ask for quote.
The Victoria Hotel
Melbourne
215 Little Collins St. Phone 63 0441
Telegrams ‘Accommodation’ Melbourne.
Or book through your Travel Agent.
V67/8
SHOPPING
BY MAIL!
We are
MAIL ORDER HOUSES
Specialising in
LADIES'
EMBROIDERED BLOUSES
AND SWEATERS.
CUSTOM TAILORED
CLOTHING, CAR COATS,
MEN'S SUITS, ETC.
Please contact
PAT KEE BUYING SERVICES
P.O. BOX 3506 S.W.
HONG KONG
AIR POSTAGE 50c FOR CATALOGUE
Films
Greene on
screen
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
The Comedians. Director, Peter Glen-
ville.
GRAHAM GREENE’S books, which
mostly read like ideal film scripts,
curiously enough have not, as a rule,
translated satisfactorily on the screen.
The exception was, of course, “The
Third Man,” which was, I think, written
specifically with the film in mind. Most
of the others “The Heart of the
Matter,” “Our Man in Havana,” “The
Power and the Glory,” and the rest —
have made interesting but ultimately
unsuccessful films.
This is the case, too, with “The
Comedians.” Enough remains of
Greene’s fine novel to make the movie
interesting to watch (though surely too
long), and there are some remarkable
performances. But it has been reduced
to an action and adventure story,
instead of the examination of the
human soul and its weaknesses, and
the extraordinary evocation of the
atmosphere of a country trapped in a
harsh dictatorship, which was Greene’s
original creation.
Much of the film’s failure to measure
up must be laid at the door of Peter
Glenville’s direction, which is smooth
and professional but not particularly
exciting. He follows the action of the
novel with painstaking accuracy most
of the time, but refuses to face the
extreme bitterness and disillusion of
the novel. This determination to add
a note of hope to Greene’s work has
ruined other screen adaptations—the
ending of “Brighton Rock,” for
instance, took much of the sting away
—but since Greene himself worked on
the film script of “The Comedians,”
some of the blame is his own.
So there are two glaring departures
from the original, both of which
romanticise it unduly: Brown, presum-
ably because Richard Burton is the
star, becomes the inadvertant hero
instead of Jones; and Brown’s adul-
terous relationship with the Ambas-
sador’s wife, presumably because Eliza-
beth Taylor plays the role, is now a
grand, tragic passion instead of a tire-
some affair carried on from force of
habit, whose ending is greeted by both
of them almost with relief.
Still, on its own level—a rather
lower one than its makers seem to
think—the movie is entertaining
enough, with plenty of sex and
violence, an exotic background and
some smart dialogue. And there are
several fine performances—in parti-
cular Alec Guinness is splendid as the
seedy, phony Major Jones, with his
military reminiscences and empty
swagger—the scene in which he reveals
the real, sad little self behind the bluster
is both funny and very moving. And
Peter Ustinov makes a great deal out
of the shadowy, underwritten role of
the cuckolded ambassador, creating a
rounded and sympathetic character out
of what could have been a mere stock
figure.
Richard Burton’s performance, expert
though it is, is a little too obviously
calculated—you can always see the
technician at work, whereas Guinness
and Ustinov make you accept their
characterisations as real people. Eliza-
beth Taylor, sleek and opulent, seems
to have strayed in from some other
movie, but since she’s been made or
allowed to play the character in a
manner totally opposed to its original
conception, it’s hardly surprising that
she isn’t very convincing.
Art
Past and Present
By ELWYN LYNN
Dealer’s Choice. Rudy Komon Gal-
lery, Sydney.
Weaver Hawkins, Joe Rose. Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney.
MAYBE it’s the stimulus ,of his pres-
tigious neighbor, Kym Bonython, that
has prompted Rudy Komon to unveil
his past and present treasures under
the unequivocal title Dealer’s Choice.
The choice, except for Judy Cassab’s
weaving willow-leaves .slicing a still
surface, William Wright’s glowing but
veiled geometry, and Blackman’s sun-
drenched and sun-dissolved children,
fading in shyness, has .that tentative
assurance and contemplative spon-
taneity that could be taken as signs of
vintage-modern, if one could forget
Mondrian, Malevich, and Mortensen.
Some are certainly vintage-modern;
in French’s Burial, that won the 1960
Sulman Prize, the burnished forms
march inexorably about the gilded
tomb, while the infinitely intricate wan
calligraphy dreams over the surface of
Fairweather’s 1961 Monastery. Its subtle
development and unassertive caution
have louder echoes in Molvig’s crumb-
ling, sooty Eden Industrial works of
1961. These, and Kemp’s subdued,
severe order, remind us of the melan-
cholic stream in Australian art into
which Marmol’s bruised and wrinkled
Umbral slides naturally. This art, as a
slow, revelatory process of accumu-
lated subtleties, is continued in Orban’s
Mura, a faded map that once may have
shown the way to Paul Klee’s. In Fred
Williams’ Upwey the scattered trees
don’t cohere through some hidden force,
but in Lysterfield they make a hill look
like the lonely edge of the world.
The more turbulent accumulation of
Olsen and Arthur Boyd on this occa-
sion makes Williams look pallidly hesi-


HARDBOARDS OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
A leading supplier of building materials to Australian and
Overseas markets requires a
PAINT CHEMIST
to establish and manage a laboratory for the development
of new surface coatings and decorative finishes for their
products.
The ability to finish developments from the pilot plant stage
to production in the shortest possible time and the ability
to co-operate with marketing and production personnel are
essential requirements for this position.
A generous commencing salary will be negotiated according
to qualifications and experience. It is anticipated that this
salary will not be below $6OOO per annum.
Applicants should be preferably 28-35 years of age, possess
at least an Honors Degree in Chemistry or Chemical En-
gineering and have had at least 5 years' experience in the
surface coatings industry gaining a good basic knowledge of
paint and plastic film surfaces and preferably a working
knowledge of the graphic arts.
Written applications stating details of age, education and
experience should be forwarded to:
No. 1236
CHANDLER & MACLEOD
(VIC.) PTY. LTD.
Personnel and Training
Consultants
445 ST. KILDA ROAD, MELBOURNE
3004
tant; Olsen and Boyd have no fear of
the muddied, daubed, congested, or con-
fused area, neither thinks simple clarity
or delicate poise ,a virtue. The two
Boyds are thick, swirling, flamboyant
works where the figures are no longer
veiled transparencies, but writhe with
the linear intensities of their back-
ground briars and woods, the very paint
partaking in the metamorphoses of
which Franz Philipp has written in his,
recent book on Boyd.
Olsen’s Harvest is the best cropping
he’s done lately: it is a rich, darkly
glowing accumulation of swelling
shapes, ripe and fecund, with its new,
slower movement and density enlivened
by a mad, sketchy Lucebert dog. His
ten-foot Sydney Sun recalls his cele-
brated ceilings, but there’s less bravura,
less dash, and less decorative impulsive-
ness!
It has some kinship with the 1962
Eric Smith Olsen in You Beaut
Country, where a deliberated Bonnard
fragmentation exploded into reckless
action-painting and assaulted the edges
of the canvas in the best de Kooning
manner. Like Sydney Sun, it swarms,
encompasses, and envelops.
The unlikely combination of Weaver
Hawkins and Joe Rose goes well to-
gether at Macquarie; Hawkins is all
lively, light-hued rhythms and Rose
presides over the emergence of be-
jewelled, shattered shapes from the
gloom, and, oddly enough, the artists
share some Victorian qualities, Rose
having a Moreau mystery and Hawkins
a fin-de-siecle, detached flaccidity in
his blooms and foliage which swarm
with a new liberation. No longer so
rigid, Hawkins has a new flexibility:
there is less of Delaunay’s firmness and
an intuitive ease has diminished his
intellectual deliberation. Areas formed
by leaves and petals flow easily as
in some areas of early Cubism for
boundaries are no longer final, an
effect increased by Hawkins’ use of
complementary colors as shadows. In-
cidentally, these lively entertainments
underline Hawkins’ concern with the
formal rhythms of quite prosaic sub-
jects; like the early Balson, Hinder,
Crowley, and Borlase, he has not time
for art as metaphysics or symbol. His
notions, not at all fashionable, grew out
of 1920 s analysis and functionalism and
it is not surprising that this present
work should have a note of the detach-
ment of art nouveau.
Joe Rose wants to present the icon
emerging, often half-formed, from the
gloom; to him Paris is a crimson sun
in a sullen sky; other forms, still owing
allegiance to abstract expressionism,
float like jewel-encrusted ectoplasms in
the unknown. Athough he found this a
little theatrical, he. seeks a new solidity
of form in his charcoals, which have
an air of surreal cubism, with a bio-
morphic swelling here and a melan-
cholic Miro eye there. Rose has a
literary imagination, which, when you
think of Baziotes, Boyd, and, to a lesser
degree, Olsen, is not such an evil thing;
his main problem is that his themes
waver between grandeur and intimacy
and his formal means between the
simple and flat areas and clusters of
lush paint: Hawkins has his petit theme,
but Rose seems to lack one of any
urgency or, remembering Fairweather,
of quiet dedication.
Records
Barbirolli's belated
debut
By JOHN CARGHER
Madame Butterfly (Puccini); Renata
Scotto, Carlo Bergonzi, Rolando
Panerai, Anna di Stasio, Rome
Opera (Barbirolli). Angel SAN 184/6;
$18.90.
THERE HAS never been a really satis-
factory recording of “Madame Butter-
fly,” and this one again misses, though
not by much. Puccini’s tear-jerker is
not as easy to produce and cast as it
would appear. With basically only two
characters and no action to speak of,
the musical standard of the conductor
and the stature of its stars are all im-
portant. Sir John Barbirolli makes a
belated record debut as an opera con-
ductor at 68. Like all good conductors,
he served an apprenticeship in the
opera house, and he obviously knows
what he is doing. Perhaps because of
his late appearance in this role, his
conducting has been hailed as a master-
piece. This it is not, but it is well above
average, and it would be hard to find
specific faults. It is certainly the best
on disc so far, but eyen better is pos-
sible.
The same can he said about the
singers, though in this case the compe-
tition is stronger. Carlo Bergonzi is the
best tenor around these days, and he
has rarely sung better. His Pinkerton
demonstrates why he will never have
the following of a Gigli or a Bjorling,
although he is a better musician than
the former and has a basically more
beautiful voice than the latter. Bergonzi
is that rare thing among tenors, a
gentleman. He is both gentle and
manly. The voice rings out truly, and
it is always impeccably in tune. There
are no mannerisms or bad habits. In
spite of all this, Bergonzi never over-
whelms the listener with the magic of
spontaneous beauty.
Renata Scotto is surprisingly good
as Cio-Cio-San. She does manage the
necessary feeling and makes Butterfly
a believable character. The voice floats
beautifully except on the rare occasion
when she pushes it unnecessarily, as in
the entrance of Butterfly, when it de-
velops a Callas-like wave which, one
hopes, it is not too late to cure. But
for this Miss Scotto could well have
been the best Butterfly on disc yet.


BOOKS
A study of Arthur Boyd which
dodges one important issue
By ELWYN LYNN
Arthur Boyd. Franz Philipp. Thames
and Hudson. $3O.
FRANZ PHILIPP’S large book on
Arthur Boyd is the most thorough, de-
tailed, and extensive historical mono-
graph on an Australian painter; it is the
first book to elevate a living painter to
historical importance and, while it is
free of the homely gossip of Geoffrey
Dutton on Drysdale, the reportage of
James Gleeson’s unpretentious book on
Dobell, and of the socio-geographical
essays in the book on Nolan —all from
Thames and Hudson —its minute item-
isation must make it difficult for the
ordinary reader.
Arthur Boyd is a significant and elu-
sive painter-sculptor, whose career has
long needed a study to reveal its con-
tinuity and meaning; Mr. Philipp has
clearly defined the various periods, has
indicated the connection between them
by analysing the persistent imagery and
purposes, and has raised the issue to
the “dualism” between Boyd’s serene
naturalistic phases and those of turbu-
lent mythology.
Mr. Philipp, a lecturer in the Depart-
ment of Fine Arts at Melbourne Uni-
versity and a friend of Boyd’s for 20
years, has a close and sympathetic un-
derstanding of the varied aspects of
Boyd’s work and convincingly expatiates
on metamorphosis as a fundamental
feature of his iconography, on the effects
of the pairing of contrary images and
on the dark primitivism that gradually
supplanted suggestions of socialist
realism of the war years.
Philipp proceeds mainly by the des-
cription of significant features of paint-
ings to demonstrate their novelty or their
repetition, or their development of habi-
tual symbols and images; announcing in
the preface that he approaches his task
with no normative aesthetic (he does,
however, declare aesthetic preferences),
he does not evaluate but rather discusses
what is valuable in the works and some-
times merely notes distinguishing
characteristics. Yet, on the little-known
and splendid ceramic sculptures, he is
evocative and permits his enthusiasm to
master his historical caution.
Art history is rummier than art,
which Turner thought a rum business,
because it is concerned with the
historical position and development of
aesthetic objects whose aesthetic values
are not considered, except by implica-
tion; and when Philipp draws parallels
between Boyd’s paintings and those of
Renaissance artists, the suggestion is
that an aesthetic pedigree is being
asserted; it is not very convincing,
mainly because the parallels are not
very illuminating. No doubt there is
a kinship between Piero de Cosimo’s
nude being watched by a dog in
London’s National Gallery and those
female, wispy ectoplasms of Boyd’s
being watched by mongrel brutes, but
Piero has a serene, civilised air and
Boyd evokes the primeval mud and
mist. Mr. Philipp tends to look too
closely at European traditions as
the Breughel-stimulated works from
.1945 to ’47 might well incline him to
but one would like to see local
influences discussed, for Perceval,
Nolan, and Tucker had been inter-
ested in hybrids and sub-creatures.
On what is happening formally in
the recurrent sexual encounters in
Boyd, Philipp is intriguing, but what
is happening psychologically (and
surely it is not against the canons of
aesthetics or art history to be inter-
ested in the minds of a Bosch or
Breughel) needs further analysis. I
think Robert Hughes, whose view is
contested by Philipp, is correct to call
Boyd’s watching of sexual encounters
by spying dogs, frogs, rams, oxen, and
angels ambivalent, but I think Hughes
right in thinking that no sex without
a sense of its being bestial or for-
bidden is puritanical. (I must say that
for Mr. Philipp the word “critic”
seems itself rather bestial; compared
with Melburnian writers like Dr. Hoff,
Margaret Garlick, Professor Smith,
and Jaynie Anderson, Sydney critics
like Gleeson and Hughes are generally
lesser folk. In fact, Mr. Philipp is
rather cursory in his treatment of
critical reception, which, since Baude-
laire, is a part of the historical
ambience that no historian can ignore.
What happens is that Alan McCul-
loch’s constant championship of Boyd
is relegated to a footnote.)
Just as he avoids analysis of the
sexual implications, it seems to me that
in his avoidance of treating the Half-
Caste Bride Series as either a sociologi-
cal or allegorical narrative by calling
it dream-play balladry, he fails to point
up the dream-like features; certainly,
Arthur Boyd ... primeval mists
modern psychoanalysts are not so sure
what happens in a dream. This under-
lines how irritating Mr. Philipp can
be: he says that Dr. Hoff’s is the best
and wisest analysis of the series that
he’s read, but he gives no hint of what
it is nor does he indicate if it differs
from his own and, mind you, he can
refer to the series’ marionette figures
in one line of the text and take time
out for pedantic references in the notes
to H. V. Kleist’s theory of puppets
and Oscar Schlemmer und die abstracte
Buhne!
In the London paintings of 1960-62,
where the Bride undergoes further
transformations, which are well des-
cribed (and one must note the
beautiful layout and the close relation
of illustration to text), concepts that
require much more elucidation are
used; Mr. Philipp writes: “The meta-
phor may become literal and thus
metamorphical: the nude hovering
over the mirror-pond like a dragon-fly
turns into a dragon-fly” . . . “The same
‘process’ of ‘describing’ a theme by un-
clothing it to its mythological bareness
and universality” is seen in various
works. Well, all that isn’t seen at all.
Would it be much different to say that
Boyd is illustrating metaphors that have
mythological implications?
The Antipodean Manifesto of 1959
still haunts the crumbling realist
castles and it’s time its perverse
polemics were subjected to a mono-
graph, for Mr. Philipp refers to the
intolerance of Sydney critics and
painters. Well, were Sydneysiders so
harsh? Did they say anything as in-
tolerant as that abstraction was
ultimately headed for “the silence of
decoration”?
It would be a colossal task to check
the notes, catalogues, bibliography, and


list of exhibitions (it’s like a splendidly
illustrated and interpretative catalogue
raisonne), but I noted some slips (which
indicate nothing about the general
accuracy): the article “Chagall Goes
Native” appeared in “Nation” on
October 11, not November 10, 1958,
and The Broadsheet of the Contem-
porary Art Society of N.S.W., referred
to several times, was dated October,
1963, and certainly not undated as one
reference has it.
Franz Philipp has written a model
of historical scholarship, and though
Boyd has been elevated almost beyond
the general reader’s sight, patient seek-
ing will bring him into focus. (It’s well
worth the trouble. The $3O. It is
expensive, but it’s a specialist book and
the market is not a world one.)
The heartbeat of old England
By JOHN BAXTER
Cotters’ England. Christina Stead.
Seeker and Warburg. $4.75.
A SET OF STEPS, grey and gritty;
cracked marble and chipped plaster; a
negligent arrangement of milk-bottles
like some greasy still-life: the cover
of Christina Stead’s new novel com-
municates instantly its nature and con-
tent. Cotters’ England is that part of
the country beyond the bright lights,
the tradition, and the romance, an Eng-
land of dank terrace houses without
bathrooms, of black fogs, bronchitis,
senility, and despair. Yet, however
hideous such an existence must seem
to people brought up with the sun and
air, it does have, as Miss Stead per-
ceptively points out, a richness and
intensity that our lives lack. Whatever
limitations these people may have in
aspirations or breadth of vision, their
existence as vital, living human beings
cannot be contested.
At first sight the Cotters do not im-
press the fastidious reader. Pop and
Ma Cotter belong to the old days, as
does the town of Bridgehead where
they live. He is a drunken “character,”
she a drudge, whose whole life revolves
around her husband. On his death, the
old woman collapses into senile in-
sanity, not the forgetful melancholy
of the romantic novels but an irritating
mindlessness, which abrades the nerves
of her family and makes them thankful
for her death. Although given only
minor roles, Pop and Ma Cotter set the
tone of Miss Stead’s novel, preparing us
for the story of their children, all of
whom, like their parents, fall victim
to the importunate necessities of Eng-
lish life.
Although some of this book’s char-
acters are portraits without faces, the
three children emerge as real, well-
drawn people, archetypal in manner
and speech, but believable, never-
theless. Nellie, a socialist journalist, pro-
fessionally working-class in a way that
is hopelessly out of date today, is the
strongest of them, but Tom, wandering
the length of England with his cancer-
afflicted mistress in the vain hope of
a cure, becomes, often by implication, a
presence that overshadows the book.
He of all the people surrounding Nellie
—family, fellow journalists, friends, a
conveniently absent husband has not
become her victim and been drained
by her ruthless demands for sympathy,
affection, interest. His final decision,
gentle but firm, to settle down after
the death of his mistress in a place
far from Nellie’s influence provides the
book’s climax. After this her power is
gone, and the author dismisses her
in a few perfunctory pages.
In terms of plot “Cotters’ England”
is not especially revealing of character
or English society. What insight it
gives us derives from background and
emphasis. Almost imperceptibly a feel-
ing of decay looms up out of the
story’s dark, cluttered surface. Tom’s
wanderings across England, his con-
tinuing reminiscences of ruined manors
overrun with gorse, and old men left
behind by time seem irrelevant until the
scene where, alone in a cheap country
hotel room, he sees weathered writing
on the hearth before the fire and realises
that the man building the inn had
used headstones from an old church
in its construction. Here is old England
reabsorbing its own substance, destroy-
ing the old only to use it in the making
of the new, just as the younger Cotters
still bear in them the rascality,
stupidity, and inflexible will to survive
which sustained their parents.
“Now and again,” H. G. Wells once
remarked, “the universe projects itself
toward me in a hideous grimace.”
Christina Stead has seen, too, this
aspect of British life, the sense of des-
truction and dread which can underlie
ordinary existence, but her apprehen-
sion lacks Wells’ belief in the human
solution. Nellie Cotter is a character
offering no possibility of any resolution
except death. The spirit which sustains
her is not the desire to live but rather
the urge not to die. She is a vehicle
for the purest and least human of
animal emotions, the will not merely
to live but to prevail, to subjugate
totally her environment and associates.
For her the “hideous grimace” is more
threatening, personal, immediate. “Life’s
a hard thing, an abomination. There’s
no hope in it. It’s a great, seamy,
crusted face looking up at you from
underneath, you can’t get away from
it . . .”
This image of almost psychotic
depression comes at the book’s core
when, faced with the socialist enthusiasm
of her husband, returned briefly from
his European sojourn, she must
crystallise the precise difference between
their characters. Detached, visionary,
his contempt for “Cotters’ England” is
scathing and complete. “The England
of the depressed . . . Don’t you want
to change it? Or is it only the beer-
soaked sawdust of bohemia you love?
The dirt and sweat of the tear-stained
bachelor’s bedroom? Bridgehead in all
its glory? You don’t know what you’re
fighting for . . .” But Nellie cannot
accept the truth of his criticism; She
moves to the heartbeat of her country,
even her passionate socialism modified
by the almost physical necessities of
being British. Life there is terrifying, a
treadmill of pain, but she loves it,
nevertheless.
The Cotters’ story is told in prose
as rough, variable, and difficult as any
in modern British fiction. The decep-
tive phrasing, seemingly ingenuous and
unpolished, is actually of immense
strength. Miss Stead’s sentences
stumble, her dialogue often seems
archaic and contrived, but each slip
is smoothly retrieved, every overstate-
ment seen later to have been perfectly
justified by its effect. Hers is a talent
of which any country can be proud:
in the face of a book like “Cotters’
England” the recent discussions, sparked
by the Britannica Prize debacle, as to
the precise degree of her Australianism
seem irrelevant. One would like to think
that it is her experience of another
country which enables Miss Stead to
see so clearly the essential nature of
the British, but for Australia to claim
any credit for her insight seems a pre-
sumption. We have not yet earned the
right to honor such fine work as this.
Poverty's voices
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
La Vida. Oscar Lewis. Seeker & War-
burg. $8.15.
“LA VIDA,” “The Life,” the hustling
life of prostitution, is the title of the
book and of one chapter in it. The
chapter is told by Fernanda, a 40-year-
old Puerto Rican negro woman last
recorded living with her sixth husband
in La Esmeralda, a San Juan slum:
“I started to work as a kitchen help in
a bar called El Molino . . . they paid
me twenty-five dollars a month. There
were some whores in the bar but I
didn’t know much about it. I thought
they led a gay life because they always
seemed to be so happy . . .
“This sailor came and asked me if
I wanted a drink. We started to drink
together and he asked me if I went out
with men. I thought this over a while
and I looked at a man near me and at
the bar owner before I answered, ‘Yes,
yes, I do’ . . .
“I went upstairs with the sailor be-
cause it was the Christmas season, see,
and I needed money for presents for
my children for the Day of the Three
Kings ... By the third day I no longer
felt any shame. I’d take off my clothes


SHIP PRINTS
Astrolabe in a Storm 1827.
Dramatic colour print of D’Urville’s
corvette in a tempest.
After de Sainson.
(10 x 15iin.) $7.50.
Emigrant Ship 1852.
Mellow colour print, after Sir O.
Brierly, of superb sailing vessel en-
tering Sydney Harbour.
(13 x 19Jin.) $8.50.
Free list of limited edition prints
and charts available. Orders by
return mail
strongly packed.
AVON PRINT
P.O. Box 208, Potts Point,
N.S.W. 2011
WHITELEAF HOTEL
66/68 Inverness Terrace, London W 2
Park 0681 Small Luxury Hotel BAYswater 1826
IFuilll Central Heating. Radio and internal
telephone in all rooms. 'Near parks, Bays-
wiater/'Queensway Tuibe Stn.
Bed and Breakfast
94 and $5 simglle or 56 with private toilet
and shower. D'oiulble $8 or !>lO with private
toilet and Shower.
ADULT BOOKS
FOR FREE PRICE LIST OF
PRIVATE ADULT BOOKS
WRITE NOW TO:
JAMES L. CANNON
BOX 71, P. 0., TWEED HEADS,
N.S.W.
Chemistry Teacher Required
Forms Five and Six
Msthf Middle School.' Qualifications:
Registration. Good Refs, essential.
Apply Principal:
ST. LEO'S COLLEGE,
HAY ST., BOX HILL 3138
right away, and I felt fine. I was gay.
It didn’t bother me a bit . . . There
were times when I earned as much as
fifty or sixty dollars in one night . . .
An honest whore is a rare thing, most
of them steal from the Americans . . .
Mary Magdalen, the saint, was once a
whore and they say that’s the way
the profession started. If she hadn’t
been a whore there would be no pros-
titution . . .”
“La Vida” is sub-titled “A Puerto
Rican Family in the Culture of Poverty
—San Juan and New York.” Sociologist
Oscar Lewis has taken his tape recorder
into the life of the Rios family, to
Fernanda, part of whose monologue
appears above, her four children from
free union with her first husband,
Christobal, and apart from these major
characters, to another nine relatives
and friends of the “family.” Lewis
records the life stories of sixteen Puerto
Ricans in all, who represent four gen-
erations and ages from seven to 64.
As he comments in the introduction,
the life of the Puerto Rican slum-
dwellers interviewed in San Juan and
New York is expressive in style, re-
vealing a zest for excitement and ex-
perience, especially sexual; valuing
acting more than thinking, pleasure
more than productivity, spending more
than saving, personal loyalty more than
justice. They are wild, aggressive, and
often violent people. Sex is used for a
great variety of needs, for pleasure, for
revenge, for money, for children, for
love, for exhibitionism. The Rios fam-
ily does not suffer from guilt feelings
and its individuals seem free of in-
ternal mental conflict. They accept
themselves entirely as they are.
Lewis first put forward his concept
of the culture of poverty after his
studies of Mexican life in the 1950 s and
used it to provide sociological insights
in his best-known book, “The Children
of Sanchez.” The culture of poverty, he
suggests, is both an adaptation and a
reaction of the poor to their marginal
position in a class-stratified, highly in-
dividuated, capitalistic society; an effort
to cope with the feelings of hopelessness
and despair which flow from the realisa-
tion the poorest have that they cannot
achieve success in terms of the values
and goals of the larger society.
Something analogous can still be seen
though it may not last another
generation in a few districts of large
Australian cities where unemployment,
overcrowding, lack of sanitation, school
truancy, physical violence, prostitution
are accepted without much signs of
regret and the aspiration to climb away
from them is commonly absent. Among
Australian Aborigines the value of such
a concept as a culture of poverty is
more abundantly clear.
The culture of poverty is not only an
adaptation to the objective circum-
stances of the larger, richer society out-
side and this is one of the reasons
why Lewis’ work is required reading for
those concerned with the problems of
Aborigines for once it emerges it
tends to be perpetuated from generation
to generation. As the Jesuits might have
told him, Lewis has found that “by the
time slum children are aged six or seven
they have usually absorbed the basic
values and attitudes of their sub-culture
and are not psychologically geared to
take full advantage of changing con-
ditions or increased opportunities which
may occur in their own lifetime.”
Those who are caught up in the cul-
ture of poverty lack effective participa-
tion in, and identification with, the
major institutions of the larger society.
But they are distinct from primitive and
preliterate tribes, who, however poor,
have their own forms of inclusive social
organisation, from the Indian lower
castes who still feel part (and some-
times a powerful part politically) of a
hierarchical order, and the poverty-
stricken Jews of Eastern Europe, who
maintained their own traditions of
literacy, scholarship, social organisation,
and optimistic religion.
Dissatisfaction
By MARGARET IRVIN
Poems Soft and Loud. Geoffrey Dutton.
F. W. Cheshire. $2.25.
ALTHOUGH SOCIAL commentary
is dominant in Geoffrey Dutton’s
“Poems Soft and Loud,” his most suc-
cessful poems are lyrical in mood and
tone.
The book opens with “A Russian
Journey,” a sequence of eight poems,
written with empathy and delight. But
darker moments are admitted, as in
the horror of a Russian poet being
blinded by Abyssinian bandits who:
Simply cut his eyelids off,
Throwing them twitching on to the
white stones,
Where they lay like the veined beaks
of new-born sparrows.
These lines could only have been
written by a courageous and compas-
sionate man. But it is Geoffrey Dutton’s
exuberance that strikes the reader in
this section, and he has an eye for
the picturesque that ranges from the
story-book shape, color, and atmosphere
of wooden houses, symbols of indi-
viduality, to “the marigold-colored
wine” of Georgia, where, he says:
I fall on the glossy breasts of
aubergines.
I am extinguished, but the spinning
stars blaze.
And after much actual and poetic
enjoyment, back to his own country,
where he grows more sombre:
I am haunted by the guilty words
of a young Australian:
“I have never suffered,” he said.
“Never seen a dead man,
A starving child, or one burnt by a
bomb.”
When Geoffrey Dutton forgets his
dissatisfaction and writes with love he
is enchanting. “The Smallest Sprout”
is a tribute, idyll, and a delineation of
an admirable character:
Achieved perfection is loveless, but
she was loved.
Beauty, the vision vanishing beyond
the trees,
Leaves a cold kiss on statues that
do not change.
The poet’s depiction of the South
Australian landscape and climate is
heartfelt, most intensely expressed in
“The Inland Sea.” One of his strongest
poems is “The Hero,” a meditation
during a flight over “Eyre’s Country,
Great Australian Bight.” The vast
relief map is very surely encompassed,
as in this image:
One albatross slowly swinging,
That is enough, the great bird
bringing
Its tiny presence to immensity . . .
One poem in the collection stands
out above the others. It is the mature
and original love-poem “Against Para-
dise,” in which the language is supple
and moving, and in which there is no
trace of the demotic flatness that some-
times mars the “tougher” pieces.


ciimiEti
on its own
is clearly
superlative...
uguiuji iXt:iA
ANGERS
COINTREAU
adds
intrigue
to a long
drink...
Illllllil
weaves
a spell
over ice
-cubes...
For a sheer, distinctive taste, there's only
one Cointreau the unique, clear liqueur
which was perfected over 150 years ago in
Angers, France. As a liqueur, in cocktails,
on the rocks or as a long drink with tonic
water, Cointreau is clearly superlative.
Discover the exotic taste of famous
HI3GNII2H liqueurs.
There are twelve fascinating Regnier
liqueurs produced by Cointreau:
CHERRY BRANDY, CREME DE MENTHE,
FRAMBOISE BRANDY, CREME DE CACAO,
MAJESTIC AU COGNAC, APRICOT BRANDY,
BANANA BRANDY, BLACKBERRY BRANDY,
PRUNELLE D’ANJOU, CREME DE CASSIS,
NOISETTE BRANDY, ANISETTE.
Enjoy
delightfully different Regnier Liqueur tonight!
For cocktail and dessert recipes, write to:
COINTREAU INFORMATION CENTRE,
120-130 QUEENS PARADE,
NORTH FITZROY.
c 2.949/m
MARION RAYMOND’S
COOKBOOK
Sauce for the
goose, the gander,
and everything else
EVER SINCE Kaiser Wilhelm greeted
Escoffier with the words: “I am the
Emperor of Germany, but you are the
Emperor of chefs,” French cuisine
and particularly the sauces which
Escoffier perfected has maintained
a style which has often been copied but
rarely equalled.
It is, however, based not upon the
elaborate creations of chefs in four-
star restaurants but the culinary skill
and interest of the French country
housewife, utilising the incomparable
raw materials that the rich French
provinces have always provided.
And no province provides such a
wealth of succulent foodstuffs as Nor-
mandy; its rain-soaked pastures mak-
ing it the “dairy farm of France,” and
its coastline yielding matchless sea-
food. Cream is of such elementary
importance in Norman kitchens that
it is safe to suppose that any dish said
to be prepared in the Norman fashion
—or labelled “a la normande” is
going to swim in it.
Their cream sauces are all based
upon a simple mux blond of flour and
butter, but the other ingredients vary
depending upon their destination. A
cream sauce for fish is usually pre-
pared with a bouillon made by cook-
ing fish heads, fins, and bones with a
cider and a bouquet garni, and egg-
yolks are frequently added to thicken
a sauce and give richness and color.
Housewives in the Auge make a
cream sauce for meats and vegetables
by steaming thin slices of onion in
butter until they are transparent, then
adding a teaspoonful of flour, which
is worked into the butter with a
wooden spoon, and enough cider to
obtain a thick cream. Then tiny cubes
of butter are dropped into the sauce
and incorporated by vigorous beating
with the wooden spoon. This is then
seasoned with salt, pepper, lemon juice,
and a bare touch of nutmeg and cin-
namon. A pint of thick cream is
stirred in at the end. This sauce is kept
hot over boiling water until serving.
I am a sauce fanatic. A smooth,
delectable soupcon of something deli-
cious can, to me, make the most simple
meal a banquet. '
On the whole, most cookery books
just list a number of well-known sauces,
and one assumes that the author then
hopes fondly that you, the cook, will
carry on and experiment. I’m going to
reverse the procedure and tell you
about some little-known sauces in the
hope that you’ll try them, find them
successful, and then be tempted to ex-
periment with your own variations.
For example, Salsa Maltesa was in-
vented in the kitchens of the Knights
of Malta, and although intended by
them to be served with asparagus, arti-
chokes, and broccoli, it is also ex-
cellent with sole, lobster, or even
steamed salmon. The Maltese orange
is the original blood orange: it is im-
portant to remember this when making
the sauce. It is. a kind of pink holland-
aise. If other xweet oranges are used,
it is essential to add a drop or two of
cochineal too little rather than too
much!
For six people, you’ll need two
oranges, two egg-yolks, and about three
ounces of butter. Take fine parings
from the rind of one of the oranges
and cut them into strips as narrow
as possible and about an inch long.
(Later squeeze the juice from the
orange.)
Grate the rind of the other orange,
then cut its flesh into small dice, free
of all pith and internal skin. Melt the
butter in a double boiler and add first
the grated rind and then, drop by drop,
the juice, beating gently. Reduce the
heat so that the water is barely boil-
ing and add the yolks of the eggs. Con-
tinue beating until the sauce thickens.
It will also have about doubled its
volume. Add the diced flesh and con-
tinue cooking for a further couple of
minutes, still beating. Before serving,
sprinkle with the strips of rind.
Salsa Agro-Dolce is really a Medi-
terranean game sauce, but excellent
with pork or chicken. Put two table-
spoons of sugar, a crushed clove of
garlic, fresh black pepper, chopped rind
of an orange and the juice of an
orange, a bayleaf, two-three cloves,
and a touch of nutmeg into a warmed
saucepan and heat very quickly, stir-
ring constantly. After three minutes re-
duce the heat and stir in two heaped
tablespoons of grated, unsweetened
chocolate and a generous squeeze of
lemon juice. Add a tablespoon of
capers. Cook gently, stirring frequently.
After 20 minutes add some of the
juice from the cooking meat and mix
thoroughly.
My son was once a boarder at a
school where he might have learned a
number of things, but appreciating good
food was not one of them. When he
came home and faced a piece of meat
or vegetable covered in sauce he care-
fully scraped it off with the comment:
“that custard tastes funny.” Now, I am
happy to say, only a few years later
he will spend any amount of time pre-
paring a sauce to go with a special
dish he has prepared for his dinner
guests. And heaven help any guest who
scrapes it off they’re never asked
again!


#
0
SHIRAZ KELLIM
An interesting example of a reversible rug
woven by the craftsmen of Fars District in
Persia. The myriad colours and strong
design make them novel divan covers.
DO PERSIAN
CARPETS GO
WITH MODERN
INTERIORS ?
Great-grandmother was devoted to
original Oriental rugs but so are many
of today's top creative designers.
Because these rugs were originally
conceived for the tents of nomadic
tribesmen and for homes of stark
simplicity they are a particularly
effective foil to modern furniture
and often shown to better advantage
than in the over-furnished rooms of
grandmother's day.
Genuine Oriental rugs are timeless.
They are the art of nomads and
peasants as well as of the master
weavers of towns like Isfahan, Keshan,
Tabriz. There are the bold colourful
nomad rugs of southern Iran, the
effectively simple deep-toned rugs of
the north east steppes and all the
homely village weaves. Each is a
hand-woven original. Call in and let
us show you examples or write for
our free informative brochures.
DENIS
CRONEEN
JN
DENIS
CRONEEN
199 Pacific H'way
NORTH SYDNEY
Phone 92-3838
PERSIAN & ORIENTAL CARPETS
Denis Croneen selected carpets
can be seen at
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Valley Fine Arts,
140 Maitland iRd., Islington,
BRISBANE: Craftsmen Market, 57 Jephson
St., Toowong.
MELBOURNE: Oriental Carpet Interiors,
305 Toorak Rd., South Yarra.
LETTERS
Non-occasion
I refer to the story printed in the
January 6 edition of The Bulletin on
page 8 headed “Diplomacy,” with a
sub-heading of “Non-occasion.”
The story states that because of a
statement by the Prime Minister and
Minister for Trade and Industry (Mr.
McEwen), the Indonesian Acting
President Suharto and Prince Sihanouk
of Cambodia decided not to attend the
Memorial Service in Melbourne of the
former Prime Minister, Mr. Holt. Your
story said Mr. McEwen’s statement was
to the effect that the Memorial Service
would provide an occasion for a sum-
mit meeting of Vietnam allies.
In fact, Mr. McEwen made no such
statement. At a Press conference on
December 20, Mr. McEwen said: “I be-
lieve myself, with the presence in Can-
berra or in Melbourne of the President
of the-United States, and Mr. Wilson,
and other people, we will, no doubt
and I will myself—have some conver-
sations with these. I have asked my
Cabinet colleagues to be available in
case it should be desired that there
should be a wider level of conferring.
There is no thought in my mind, and
I am sure no thought in the minds of
any others, of what might be thought
of as a conference between various
people. I would expect that those who
want to talk, as I myself will want to
talk, with the dignitaries who will come
here will have their conversations, but
in no sense formal conferences.”
You will notice that Mr. McEwen
made no mention of any summit meet-
ing and, in fact, discounted any sug-
gestion that a formal meeting of allied
leaders would occur.
In a television statement the previous
day, Mr. McEwen said: “The very
high calibre of many amongst the
visitors who will have travelled trem-
endous distances for this (the Mem-
orial) Service is a major tribute to the
regard and respect in which our Prime
Minister was held internationally. I
would expect that advantage will be
taken of the opportunity of their
presence to have discussions on great
matters of mutual interest and I have
asked my Cabinet colleagues to be
available.”
These were the only references made
by Mr. McEwen to the visits of the
Asian Heads of State, President John-
son, and Mr. Wilson. These could not
be interpreted in any sense as an an-
nouncement of a Vietnam allies’ sum-
mit meeting. The blatant misinterpreta-
tion of Mr. McEwen’s words were
compounded by the caption “McEwen
. . . shattering statement” beneath a
picture of Mr. McEwen on the same
page. At the very best, the article and
the caption are examples of extremely
bad journalism.
Robert Macklin
Press Secretary to
Mr. McEwen
Canberra, A.C.T.
[The Bulletin’s information (which
it has no reason to doubt) was
that Mr. McEwen’s statements were
interpreted by foreign leaders in the
way we reported, with the results we
described. It has since come to our
attention that the Japanese decision to
send a fairly low-level representation
to the Holt Memorial Service was also
prompted by a similar interpretation
of Mr. McEwen’s statement. Under
these circumstances the caption
“McEwen . . . shattering statement”
does not seem “extremely bad journal-
ism,” but a simple description of fact.
Editor.]
The Nordic Normans
I have always been perplexed by the
myth about Frenchmen and 'the Battle
of Hastings, an example of which is
contained in the alleged quotation in
your paper (8., Dec. 23) about de
Gaulle being tactful on the matter. In
actual fact, the Normans were a Nordic
people, as the name implies. They were
of Scandinavian origin and they came
down and took Normandy not long
before the incursion into England and
found it convenient to adopt the French
language. That they were not French-
men may be deduced from the fact
that they continued to fight the French
kings for many years after the Battle
of Hastings and did not become a part
of France until the 13>th century.
Nor can I understand why people
of British descent need feel apologetic
about the Battle of Hastings. It was,
after all, a victory for the founders of
the modern English nation. They were
our ancestors just as much as the Angles,
Saxons, and other Nordic races that
occupied Britain at the time. In due
course these races merged to form the
people who went on to found Nordic
nations throughout the world.
R. Robbins
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide Festival plays
In a letter published in The Bulletin
of January 6, it appeared that Gogol’s
“The Inspector General” is to be pro-
duced in the Union Hall as part of the
Adelaide Festival of Arts. In fact, the
only Festival play to be produced in the
Union Hall is “The Recruiting Officer.”
“The Inspector General” will be pro-
duced at Prince Alfred College.
Peter Miles
President, the Adelaide
University Theatre Guild
Adelaide, S.A.


:-:W:
t
m
m
Hawker Siddeley
is designing air conditioning
to give Concorde passengers
a cool reception...
and storage heaters to give
people a warm welcome.
With outside temperatures varying from minus
16°C to 160°C the supersonic Concorde will
demand cabin temperatures that are precision
controlled. And Hawker Siddeley’s long experi-
ence in air-conditioning technology will ensure
thatthose demands are met □ Hawker Siddeley
takes care of home comforts, too, manufacturing
electric storage heaters that combine elegance
and low'running costs □ Hawker Siddeley Group
also builds twelve different types of aircraft;
erects and equips power stations; and makes
diesels from 1-5 bhp to 8,500 bhp. In fact, its
engineering index lists a vast range of essential
products and services. That’s what makes
this a world-size industrial group earning
about SA2 million a day.
HAWKER SIDDELEY GROUP 18 ST. JAMES’S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I.
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY: AVIATION: HAWKER DE HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY LIMITED. LIDCOMBE. NEW SOUTH WALES
INDUSTRIAL: HAWKER SIDDELEY BRUSH PROPRIETARY LIMITED. MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service


If you want to know
What's Happening
in London,
ask an Australian
Australians have a fresh approach to London. Most Londoners just work
there. Australians go there to live and become part of the place. It’s the
London Qantas knows. The crazy clothes. Small, swinging pubs. People you’ll like
to meet. Qantas knows London because Qantas goes there more often than any
other airline. 47 years of flying people have taught us when, where and how
you like to fly. Go abroad with Qantas. And let London happen to you.
10 times a week, Qantas flies to London via Singapore or Hong Kong, India,
Athens, Rome, Frankfurt, Vienna or Amsterdam. Ask your local
Travel Agent for details or ’phone Qantas.
OiJXNTJkS
AUSTRALIA’S WAY TO THE WORLD: AMERICA, ASIA, EUROPE, AFRICA
QANTAS, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, BO AC, MSA and S.A.A. Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney, 'phone 2-0369; Canberra, 7Q1R.107.28T
4-4381; Melbourne, 63-0151; Brisbane, 31-2141; Townsville, 6901; Adelaide, 51-7855; Perth, 23-1564/5/6; Hobart, 2-7031; Darwin, 3350/1.
