

The Bulletin
INVJV C/V\DCf\ DU, I VDO
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
The
single
life
Registered in Australia for transmission by post os a newspaper. Australia 25c, New Zealand 25c, New Guinea 32c, Singapore $1.25, Malaysia $1.25


from drying to driving...
...the user expects dependable long term operation
from rotary moving parts. Only ffiCSfF makes
all the types of high quality rolling bearings
required by the many applications of light and
heavy industrial products. This assures the
manufacturer of completely unbiassed technical
advice without the restricting influence of a
limited product range. SSCS[F Sales Offices and
Agents hold, at all times, large stocks of SSCSfP
bearings up to 12 months supply. This assures
continuous, reliable satisfaction of your ever
increasing requirements.
performance revolves on
THE ffiCS[F BALL BEARING COMPANY (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agents in other capitals and country centres
E. G. HOLT & ASSOCIATES PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
1 I T
» /
1310 SK


We tailor
everything by hand.
Unless amachine
can do it better.
And that’s the honest truth. That’s why our suits keep their cut,
style and meticulous detail Fabrics? The comfort of lightweight
pure new wool and wrinkle-shedding wool and terylene. Colours?
A wide range of conventional and a distinguished range of the
unexpected. Buy a Hiller and get the best suit you ever owned.
EHIOEH
The Bulletin
VOL. 90. No. 4630.
NOVEMBER 30, 1968
ESTABLISHED 1880
THE SINGLE LIFE 31
COLUMNS
One More Week 4
Batman's Melbourne 7
Daphne Guinness 9
Comment 13
Speculator's Diary 51
The Chartist 57
AUSTRALIA 15
INTERNATIONAL 23
SPECIAL FEATURES 36
BUSINESS & THE ECONOMY 49
THE LAND 55
INVESTMENT 57
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 76
BOOKS 82
LETTERS 86
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney 2001—Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne 3000 — Newspaper House,
Collins Street. Phone: 63-3341.


One more week
BACK TO THE BEGINNING
FROM THE PLETHORA of cigarette
advertising on television, we momen-
tarily gained the impression that some-
one had launched a mini king-sized
cigarette. Which would put us right
back where we started.
TAKING NO CHANCES
THE BULLETIN reported in our
issue of November 9 that Dr. Ian
Turner, senior lecturer in Australian
History at Monash University, Mel-
bourne, had been refused a visa to
make a brief visit to several United
States East Coast universities.
The United States Government’s
refusal is believed to be because of Dr.
Turner’s former membership of the
Communist Party. Dr. Turner’s main
purpose in America was to talk to
historians about the Red Indians and
to gather material for a collection of
Dr. Ian Turner ... Miami denied
children’s play songs and skipping
rhymes he is working on.
But the Americans are taking no
chances. Dr. Turner is now planning
to travel to Europe on the Chandris
Line’s ship Australis, which will call
at Miami on January 26, 1969. The
U.S. Consul in Melbourne has advised
him that he could travel on this ship
without an American visa but adds, in
a letter, that the “possibility of your
going ashore during the few hours that
the ship is in port would be a matter
for discussion with Immigration
Officers who board the ship in Miami.”
The picture of Dr. Turner subverting
the United States during a few hours
spent ashore at Miami on Australia
Day is a highly diverting one; Dr.
Turner no doubt finds it flattering.
"MAY"
THE STAGE is not a notably dis-
criminatory field. However, it seems
remarkable that in the lean years of
the ’thirties, ’forties, and into the ’fifties,
when no Government aid to the theatre
was forthcoming and to work in this
field meant considerable financial sacri-
fice, the banner in Sydney was carried
by Doris Fitton, May Hollinworth, and
Beryl Bryant. Now that things are a
little easier and there are at least a
few respectable jobs as directors and
producers these are filled by men.
May Hollinworth died last week. It
is not to take away from her gifts and
achievements as a producer to suggest
that it is well-nigh impossible for the
young actors coming from NIDA to
understand what her Metropolitan
Theatre in the ’forties and early ’fifties
was all about. (It must be harder still
for anyone now at Sydney University
to understand what SUDS was in its
heyday under Miss Hollinworth, so
moribund is drama presentation at that
university now.)
Today’s young actors are trained as
professionals. If they are good enough
they, get something near adequate work
as professionals. They must be judged
as professionals. Miss Hollinworth
would understand and applaud this.
They, in their turn, should under-
stand what work and sacrifice went into
keeping some sort of theatrical tradition
alive then in Australian cities, suffo-
cating under the dead weight of the
Williamson musical and the American
film. Miss Hollinworth wais helped a
little by the fact that at that time many
of her actors had a relatively steady
and, sometimes, high income from
radio, but the effort was still great.
Her range of plays was wide, standards
relatively high, and audiences, although
small, were loyal and appreciative.
There may be some lingering anger
in the minds of Miss Hollinworth’s old
associates and friends that her talents
were left to flower in such thin soil, but
that sort of attitude was far from her
own serene and clear intelligence and
good heart.—PATRICIA ROLFE.
MARRIAGE OF ACUTE MINDS
IT IS NOT surprising that the gadfly
of Australian politics should find
common ground with the gadfly of
English orthodoxy. Besides being both
uncommonly good talkers, Mr. B. A.
Santamaria and Mr. Malcolm Mugger-
idge have some philosophical affinities.
This in part explains why Mr. Santa-
maria has invited Mr. Muggeridge to
give an Australian lecture tour next
March; Mr. Muggeridge is trying to fit
it into his, these days, very busy
program.
“I first met Muggeridge during his
two previous visits in the ’fifties,” Mr.
Santamaria said. “He did a series of
TV interviews of the type that he has
since developed so successfully on the
BBC. I was the subject of one of those
interviews. We then established a
friendship which has been kept up by a
desultory correspondence since.”
The plan for the lectures grew out
of Muggeridge’s wish to return from an
American lecture tour via Australia and
South-East Asia. “We wanted to discuss
a number of developments in the moral
and cultural field,” Mr. Santamaria said.
“Mr. Muggeridge is deeply preoccupied
with the general moral crises of western
civilisation, particularly the moral prob-
lems of Christianity. So when he said he
was making the visit I thought it would
be worth while if he could give a series
of lectures.”
It was an opportunity not to be missed.
“I think he is one of the two most acute
minds I have met in my life the
other being Archbishop Mannix,” Mr.
Santamaria said.
“The lectures would not be specifi-
cally political. Muggeridge dismisses
politics as a supreme irrelevance. He
regards 95 percent of politics as
charlatanis,m. Perhaps I do, too, but the
direction of politics is so important for
the human condition that we must have
even greater concern for the other five
percent.”
Mr. Santamaria is sure that Mr.
Muggeridge will be stimulating. “A per-
son like this will be an extremely
refreshing influence, especially upon the
academic orthodoxy: the fashionable
left-liberal orthodoxy which is a
Muggeridge bete noire.”
Mr. Muggeridge, Mr. Santamaria
All their own work
A film critic with passion and humor
and intelligence doesn’t exist in
London; the critic of “The Times,” for
instance, is a Julie Andrews fan.
Visiting film director Tony Richardson
Some incoming Ministers sometimes
have to learn certain values or even
certain procedures rather painfully by
a repeated process of falling flat on
their faces in public places. Some never
learn.
Minister for External Affairs. Mr. Hasluck
I am very proud to be associated
with the ministry and my colleagues in
it.
Minister for External Affairs. Mr. Hasluck
The Book of Revelations is purely
psychedelic from start to finish.
Rev. Ted Noffs of Sydney
New Guinea needs a black New
Guinea policy to protect native busi-
nessmen from white competitors.
Rev. Percy Chatterton
We; have to live with the bugs and
the bomb, not for the next ten years
but for the next thousand.
Mr. Arthur Koestler
Until the police and the Government
are prepared to take a long and sincere
look at the road-accident problem,
there is little the publican can do.
President cf the Victorian Branch of the
Australian Hotels Association
What a broken-down, broken-
mouthed, broken-winded old crock of a
motion.
Prime Minister, Mr. Gorton
No Government has been in such
disarray since the Fadden Government
fell.
Leader of the Opposition. Mr. Whitlam


Rarmelia.
One of Australia’s finest hotels,
opens on Sunday 15 December.
m
;
4
The Parmelia is an inspiration of
comfort, of elegance, of taste.
It is a true hotel where every
guest is treated with impeccable
courtesy. For weeks the staff
have been gathering at the
Adelphi where they are learning
the refinements that will be
demanded at the Parmelia.
The Adelphi will close. The
Parmelia will open. International
in every respect.
4124 G
o
PARMELIA
Mill Street, Perth, W.A., 6000. 21 0301
Telex 92365
said, found the current attitude of the
left-liberal orthodoxy to China to be a
repetition of similar illusions about
Stalin and Stalinism in the ’thirties. So,
in as much as the lectures would debunk
this orthodoxy, they would have political
implications.
The arrangements for the tour had
not been finalised, but the National
Civic Council would undertake its
organisation. Would some Australians
find Muggeridge’s views old-world and
quaint? “He is dismissed as quaint by
some people who think his change from
being a Fabian Socialist to someone
approaching Christianity has been some-
what eccentric, but I regard this as
progress.”
POWER OF THE PRESS
LAST MARCH The Bulletin had an
item about vice-regal notices, which
still appear in some of the daily papers.
We suggested that it was hard to judge
from them what was going on, and
opined that the best way to show
we have faith in what our Governors
are doing is to let their activities take
their chance with the rest of the news.
We chose as examples of vice-regal
notice obfuscation one in which prece-
dence was given to the Governor-
General receiving the Ambassador of
the Lebanon over his administering
oaths to the new Prime Minister, Mr.
Gorton, and his ministry. We also men-
tioned that the noted photographer
Cecil Beaton had been disguised as Mr.
C. W. Beaton in a vice-regal notice.
By coincidence, there seems to have
been a gradual building-up in the vice-
regal column. of the sort of detail
which news editors call for elsewhere in
their papers. When Mr. B. Grant is
received by the Governor-General, we
know it is Mr. B. Grant of “The Age,”
because it says so. Lord Thomeycroft
gets in with “Chairman Pye Holdings”
in brackets after him.
By a more remarkable coincidence,
an item appeared in Claudia’s column
of the Melbourne “Herald” recently,
discussing the “quaint survival of vice-
regal notes in some leading news-
papers.” Claudia chose as her examples
one notice in which the Governor-
General receiving the Ambassador of
the Lebanon took precedence over him
administering oaths to the new Prime
Minister, Mr. Gorton, and his ministry,
and another in which Mr. Cecil Beaton
was mentioned as Mr. C. W. Beaton.
We don’t mind Claudia having a bit
of a lean on The Bulletin, but we are
rather distressed that she has so little
faith in the power of the Press that she
seems to have taken it absolutely for
granted that our paragraph had no
effect whatsoever.
POINT OF VIEW
IN AN UNUSUAL, to say the least,
case in Melbourne last week a sales-
man was released on 12 .months’
probation after it was alleged that he


gave away more than $1000 worth of
clothing from his employer’s shop.
It was said in court that the man
understood from his employers that he
could spend up to $1000 on advertising.
The method he chose was to stand on
the corner of Swanston and Bourke
Streets and conduct some sort of poll.
When he found people who had never
heard of the shop, or were in need of
clothing, he gave them some.
Releasing the man, the judge said
he had behaved “like an idiot.” If,
however, he had been working for a
large chainstore or a petrol company
and was engaged in giving away goods
people don’t really want to people who
can well afford to buy them, his
behaviour would be accepted as routine
promotion methods.
STAYING THE COURSE
THE CONCEPT of student action
hadn’t travelled much farther than the
campus at Berkeley when Australia’s
first “free university” was set up for
the summer in an old terrace house in
Sydney a year ago.
Since then, student protest has
become an old story, and the idea of
an “anti-university” isn’t . so radical
now. But this summer, the Free U is
returning in more ambitious style than
last, with discussion groups on every-
thing from “The Problems of Democ-
racy in Australia” and “Atrocities
Examined” to “Fashion” and “The
Enjoyment of Poetry.” For those
activists who are impatient with talk,
there will be “research and action
projects” on poverty, race relations,
and what’s wrong with educational
institutions of the other kind, or, as
Free U prefers to call them, “the mass
universities.”
Two suitably atmospheric establish-
ments have been rented to house the
free university for the summer —an
ex-pub in Redfern and the manse of
St. John’s Presbyterian Church in
Paddington; some students will be able
to “live in,” since its organisers want
the free university to be, most of all, a
community.
Beyond subject headings, the sub-
stance of the courses is determinedly
vague. Spontaneity seems to be the key-
note, and although the organisers have
been particularly efficient about
brochures, the tenses used are usually
future indefinite, and practicalities, like
timetables, will all be disclosed at “a
combination public meeting and turn”
on Saturday evening at. the Free U’s
Redfern headquarters.
Necessarily, Free U can’t be taken
literally in the material sense. Some-
body has to pay the rent. So a flat $10
fee will be charged for enrolment, but
even this, its organisers say, makes it
the cheapest free university in the
world. If you just don’t have $10,
instalment plans can be arranged, we’re
told.
All other arrangements are to be left
to the students, according to Bob
Connell, one of the organisers and a
postgraduate student in Government
at Sydney University. “As much as
possible, the lecture format is to be
broken down. We’re against the distinc-
tion between ‘teacher’ and ‘taught,’ the
feeling that lecturers have particular,
god-like access to a body of truth
which they dole out. This is emphasised
by the examination system. As far as
I’m concerned, it violates human dig-
nity, and science as well.”
Connell, who is large, bearded, and
genial, lives in an elderly terrace house
in Glebe, centre of the Sydney Uni-
versity student belt, with a wall of
books and not much else in the way
of furniture. He has been at Sydney
University for the past three years—
rubbing along “abrasively” with the
more formalised methods of teaching.
The attitude of the university hierarchy
to the Free U has so far been equivocal.
The Vice-Chancellor of Sydney Univer-
sity, Professor Bruce Williams, has
expressed interest, but declined an
invitation to give a course this summer,
while the unofficial reactions among
the academics at Sydney University
have been mixed. “Some don’t like it,”
Connell says, “because they regard any
critical talk about university teaching
as a direct attack on their own com-
petence and standing. On the other
hand, others are quite interested.
“No, I don’t think these can be
characterised as the younger, .more
progressively minded ones.”
The idea for the free university was
born “in a smoke-filled room high above
Sydney University quad one evening.”
“I suppose you could say everybody
there belonged to the traditional left,
although most of the original people
have dropped out by now,” Connell
said. “Then the idea was put up
publicly and a lot of new people came
in. And they’ve stuck.
“Last year we got a bigger response
than I expected, but my estimate of the
number of those who really contributed
wasn’t too far out. I suppose about 30
actually stayed on right through and
formed themselves into a community.
“Some of the ideas didn’t work. For
instance, I thought we’d be able to form
a research centre to work on things not
being studied enough in the universities
things like the Vietnam
War, youth, style, fashion, mass media.
“Most of it fell through except the
one on social class. We kept that going
and eventually wrote a collective article
on social class and politics which is
being published next year. And some
research on drugs was done, too. But
it was difficult because cf time. Part-
time research isn’t really satisfactory.”
Connell is more optimistic about the
feasibility of the research and action
projects.
“I’m not sure how they’ll work. It’ll
depend on each group. But the one on
poverty we’re organising in Redfern
could be some kind of centre set up in
the building we’ve rented there. The
University Settlement did something like
this earlier in the year. They went along
to the local school and asked the head-
master if any kids there were being
held back by conditions at home,
perhaps nowhere to work or something.
And they held coaching classes for these
kids. They’ve stopped now, but they’ll
be starting up again soon.”
Free U has three separate aims—to
stimulate reform in the university
system, to form a basis of ideas for the
radical movement, and to develop a
form of thought and culture indepen-
dent of bureaucracy and officialdom.
“Not all the students agree with the
three aims. Some don’t want it identi-
fied with radicalism, others don’t want
it identified with the mass universities.
There was a lot of discussion this year
about whether we should move right
away from the Sydney University area
and set up business on our own. Anyway,
we* finally did both — headquarters
near the University and away from it
at Paddington.”
A BIT OF "PICKWICK"
AN ITEM in the Sydney “Daily
Mirror” read: “Whenever he is
travelling—and he travels a lot—the
controller of co,mmunications for Inter-
national Computers Pty. Ltd. reads a
bit of ‘Pickwick Papers’ every night
before going to sleep. This isn’t quite
as odd as it might seem, because the
controller is Mr. Cedric C. Dickens,
great-grandson of the famous English
novelist.
“The bleak, but intensely human,
Dickensian picture of put-upon clerks
sitting on their high stools in the
counting house may not appear to
relate to the picture of a buzzing, tick-
ing robot spewing answers out of a
mechanical belly. But Mr. Cedric
Dickens thinks Mr. Charles Dickens
would be writing about ‘computers if
he were alive today.”
But somebody at the “Mirror”
doesn’t read his “Pickwick Papers”
' every night.
Batman’s
Melbourne
GETTING ALL
STEAMED-UP OVER
DISEASELS
THERE IS ONE terrible weakness in
the othei'wise cruel make-up of your
correspondent—he is drawn to old trams
and old railway trains. Last week 65
Americans arrived in Melbourne just to
see the glories that Melbourne had to
offer. They were not interested in our
usual run of treasures Phar Lap,
Chloe, Ned Kelly’s armor, sacred footy
sweaters out at Collingwood, or the
changing of the guard at the Shrine;
they devoted every second to looking at
our railway trains and our beloved
trams. They were members of the


Premium Hunter Valley Wines
To identify these fine wines to the
connoisseur, Lindemans have bottled
them under a new and distinctive
label which has become a hallmark
of their excellence. All Red and White
table wines to be released carrying
this label have been vintaged at
Lindemans historic Hunter River
vineyards.
&
> 5
Rp 1964
F ri v ' i:(!
tllx 1967
RIVER
V^Minek
1 E S LIN G
BJH 2925
Mans , wines pty ltd st
u T PT. 6 n o/. *
5..,. ,N 3245
2N7'J!«PTY. ltd., S»W £ ’
PT '6FL. OZ,
n * rmi •] i
mu
LW4/20
Pacific Coast Chapter of the Railway
and Historical Society of the U.S.A.
The party arrived in Melbourne 45
minutes late and there was a general
feeling of irritation. They had come by
air from New ' Zealand, and several
Pacific Chapter men pointed out that it
was a basic fault of this mode of trans-
port. Had there been a railway line
between Auckland and Melbourne,
schedules, naturally, would have been
kept.
The tour director was Arthur L. Lloyd,
of San Francisco. “We make 25 trips a
year and there is always a big one,
when we go, say, to the Orient, South
America, Canada, Japan, or some such
place.”
Where was the best place in the world
for the utterly devoted train lover to
visit?
“Why, almost anywhere in South
America is good. But the best? Bolivia.
Do you know that there is only one
diesel train in all Bolivia, and right
there, still in operation, they have the
most beautiful, the oldest steam engines
you ever saw. The place is a working
museum.”
And this is the trouble with the
United States today. Except for rail-
way engines used for tourist centres,
there is not orte active steam engine in
all the United States. The situation was
so bad that even old types of diesels
had been phased out and were now col-
lectors’ items. Arthur pointed out that
steam engines had gone the way of
veteran cars. A good steam engine
fetched $5OOO to $lO,OOO.
“But that’s just the start,” he said
gloomily. “You can’t get them fixed up
any more. We have in the Society 25
locomotives. But who services them?
Not the railway lines, they don’t know
how. We have to send them to the
Bethlehem shipyards, and that can cost
$lO,OOO for one loco.”
Two of the Pacific Coast men, Messrs.
G. M. Best and Ward Kimball, have
their own trains. Not model toy trains —
they imported 3ft.-gauge steam loco-
motives from Japan and they each have
half a mile of track in their gardens.
They run their private railway lines
every weekend. One learned of their
pure devotion, of the hours spent on
maintenance, how on Saturday mornings
they would rise around 4 o’clock,
because the steamers, after firing,
required at least eight hours to get up
steam. One was tempted to suggest that
if Messrs. Best and Kimball converted
to diesel power then they would have
instant traction, as with a motor-car,
merely by pushing the starter button.
However, there are times when it is best
to restrain one’s vintage tongue.
There were some colorful gentlemen
in the party. The president was Fred
Stindt, an executive with Matson Lines
in San Francisco. Fred was a true train
lover. His eyes tended to water up at
the sight of a beautiful steam engine.
Always he referred to diesel engines
contemptuously as “growlers,” and he
showed a fondness for the local term
“diseasels.” He had, too, a colorful turn
of phrase. They went on a steam-train


II
YourTAA hostess
can have
an AVIS Rent a Car
waiting for you!
Just another way
thatTAA
takes extra care.
Fly TAA the Friendly Way
TAA
AVIS
RENTACAR
trip out of Christchurch. “The engine
was a big KB, and, boy, did she have
stack music/' Fred tried to elaborate
on the glorious noises made by that
engine. "It looked mighty. The throttle
bar was out on the tank and the Johnson
bar was right in there among the oil
cans."
Regrettably your correspondent can-
not give a translation for the last line,
but it would appear that this N.Z.
railway train was puffing very quickly
indeed. Then one suggested to Mr.
Stindt that these locomotives were
admirable while stationary, but*, when
in full cry, breathing the soot could
become very tiresome. “No, sir, no,
sir, he said. “That soot yras lovely.
To me, it was like dessert.”
Perhaps an even more remarkable
character was George T. F. Rahilly, a
surgeon from Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
George was laden with cameras, both
movie and still, and he constantly
photographed everything in sight that
puffed or had once huffed. He had with
him a wife and two children. Mrs.
Rahilly kept looking wistful, as if
dreaming of an Eldorado where not a
railway train existed.
Dr. Rahilly said back home he had
a collection of 90 long-playing records
all of engine noises, including such titles
as “Whistling Through Dixie,”
“Thunder on the. Blue Ridge,” “Steam
in the Snow,” and when he was
wrought up there was no greater relax-
ation a man could have than to listen
to those engine noises.
"But, he said, "you know my favorite
record? It’s great. Your historical
society made it right here, called
Steam on the Five Foot Three.’ It
has a beautiful stretch, that of the
narrow-gauge Garrett, and it comes
through ‘Sock-it-to-me Sock-it-to-me
Sock-it-to-me’.”
He said that he made -gauge
“After looking at our railways, they’re
convinced we should put them under-
ground!”


12
If s cooler inside
Fletcher
JONES
TROUSERS
Such a wealth of cool new colours and
cloths to choose from . . . personally
fitted, in your precise size, today !
Lightweights from a cool $12.95.
Others, from $11.95.
Canberra. Sydney, Bankstown, Brookvale, Miranda,
Parramatta; Newcastle, Woolongong. Melbourne,
Chadstone, Eastland, Footscray, Forest Hill, Northland,
Southland; Frankston. Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong,
Morwell, Warrnambool; Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston.
FJ.425.
models of railway carriages, and every
night he went out there in the garage,
constructed his models, and all the time
listened to engine noises. Marvellous.
He said now he had 200 models and
no longer was there any room for his
motor-car. It had to sit outside. “And
that’s tough,” said George. “We get a
lot of hurricanes at Fort Lauderdale.”
Immediately upon arrival in Mel-
bourne the Pacific Coast party went
by blue train to the Australian Railway
Historical Society Museum at Newport.
It was a deeply moving experience to
note the impact. They stood in astonish-
ment, like art dealers who had suddenly
discovered a previously unknown
cache of huge valuable Renoirs, Rem-
brandts, and Botticellis. Here there
were 16 vintage locomotives and eight
carriages. There was the lovely old
F 176, “The Deepdene Dasher,” with
its pea whistle and brass dome. There
was “Heavy Harry,” a superb 260 tons
of metal, and the 1890 “Norman” car
all lined in mahogany and built for
the Railway Commissioners and
visiting royalty.
They thought it the best railway
museum they had ever seen. During
the afternoon they rode on “Puffing
Billy” up at Emerald, then at night
they went for a ride to Woodend on a
special train drawn by two “R” two-
class stea,m locos.
It was all very lovely. Perhaps the
piece de resistance was the ride back
from Spencer Street Station to the
Southern Cross Hotel. Everyone
remarked on the wisdom, the supreme
enlightenment of Melbourne, the city
that had kept its trams.
The following day there was a tram
strike, caused by cutting of services
and a coming loss of $3.3 million for
the year. An evil solution to this comes
to mind. Do you think the Pacific
Chapter might act as agent for selling
our trams on the vintage market in the
U.S.? We’d make a mint on the deal.
OUT AND ABOUT
Daphne Guinness
SHUFFLING ONE'S
PERSONAL DESTINY
IN THE CARDS
“OH, IT’S dead easy. They go on a
bit in the instructions. You’re supposed
to mix ’em around, swirl ’em on a
flat surface. I don’t bother.” Margaret,
the junior typist/receptionist straight
from business college, picks up a black
plastic box and tips out 112 gold cards
embossed with an eye and crossed
white sticks, three purple cards with
keys on, one green premonition card
with skulls and eyes and hands on, and
one black card which is the omen of
disaster and, if nervous, should on no
account be left in.
Margaret puts the whole lot in,


All the taste and none
of the freight.
What else could a true Scot drink?
When you find a good whisky you know it right away. Judging one is
a very simple process: Drink it straight, or with a wee drop of
water. Then you know. Which is exactly why Mr. Milne’s Bond 7
outsells 306 brands of Scotch made in Scotland. Bond 7 is the
end result of a true Scot’s attitude to the making of good
whisky. Make it rich. Make it mellow. Make it malty. Make it mature
William Milne didn’t see a reason to spend money on freighting
whisky when it can be made right here. So from Scotland
brought the Colony’s first distillery and ended the need to pay
spirit freight. Which was the very beginning of today’s very
popular Bond 7. When you get the taste of it, you’ll know why.
I BOND 7
= -¥/<?****;
§ WHISKY
Mr. Milne's
Bond 7
except the premonition card, shuffles
and says OK pick up the cards after
the purple keys. This is another of
her shortcuts. Mr. Mrod Augustine,
of Middle East Heritage, has applied
himself these past 20 years producing
this accurate key to Personal Destiny,
resulting in 3,178,785 different com-
binations of disclosure, and here’s the
junior typist/receptionist shortcutting
her way through it without a tremor.
“Oh, he’s awfully nice, is Mr. Augus-
tine,” says Margaret, “he’s one of those
enormous men, you know, big with
shoulders, he’s in New Zealand now
doing something with horses but he’s
just as likely to walk in through that
door ...” 1
OK, pick up after the purple keys.
Margaret watches with a cynical
17-year-old smile. This column is in
the throes of depression. It thinks it is
neither loved nor wanted. It is so
wrong, it is both wanted and loved . . .
it will also give its love in return for
favors granted toward the achievement
of its ambitions ... it is going to pre-
vent a dear one from taking his own
life. Yes, well, says Margaret, it’s not
necessary to read them out loud.
There is a pounding of feet and the
Master Mind (Australia) behind these
revelations, jacketless and carrying a
bulging briefcase, bursts into his 12th-
floor office in Sydney’s Royal Exchange
Building. New Zealander Andrew
Porter Johnson, former schoolteacher
and present owner of a motor-car sales
firm, has been engaged in the delicate
art of persuading the novelty-gift buyer
at David Jones’ to see him this after-
noon. At the psychologically good sales-
time of three o’clock. Buyers, on the
whole, are suspicious of fortune cards,
but Mr. Johnson has a knack of cutting
through this barrier. By Christmas,
Sydney will be up to its ears in Personal
Destiny: 80,000 packs of it. “I suppose,”
he says modestly, “it is because I’m a
good salesman.” He throws the cards
Andrew Johnson gets the cards working
on a personal destiny revelation


52
ISSUES OF
THE BULLETIN
FOR THE
PRICE OF
42
Under a special concession offer still current you
can now buy The Bulletin for 20c a copy instead
of 25c. With this special offer Australian readers
can take out a 12-month subscription to The
Bulletin for $10.40. This represents a saving of
$2.60 on a year's issues. This offer is available
to Australian readers only. The best way not to
miss out on Australia is through a Bulletin sub-
scription.
MAIL THIS COUPON NOW
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me the next 52 issues of the Bulletin. I enclose a cheque for $10.40.
NAME
ADDRESS™.
(BLOCK LETTERS)
_ (BLOCK 'LETTERS)
LJ Renewal [J New subscription. Tick as appropriate.
SEND TO SUBSCRIPTION DEPT., BOX 4088, G.P.0., SYDNEY 2001.
down, mixes ’em, swirls 'em as
instructed, and what emerges is a refer-
ence to pride, snobbery, and false
feeling of self-importance . . . causing
periods of frequent boredom and
loneliness. Could be, he says, could be.
“Oh, Mr. Johnson,” breathes Margaret,
“you’re not a snob.”
One of the first things Andrew John-
son did when he took on this job as
manager of Omar Distributors was to
fire the advertising agency. They think
of nothing but sex, he says, but sex
doesn’t sell toothpaste any more than
it sells fortune cards. Anyway, it’s
saving him a ton of money. Perhaps
he should mention that Omar’s not a
fly-bv-night concern “. . . there is Omar
in New Zealand, in the States, and
one in the Bahamas with six share-
holders, three of whom are millionaires,
no names, please.” No offered.
He is spending between $70,000 and
$BO,OOO launching Personal Destiny
here and wrote his first newspaper
advertisement at home in the sitting-
room with television going full blast.
It took him ten minutes. He is, he
says, that sort of man. Unfortunately,
someone boobed and the price
appeared as $lO instead of $6. So he
gets another inserted and, would you
believe it, they put $lO again. This
time he is sending in some art work:
and has drafted a letter to the editor
saying how pleased he is he selected
that paper.
“I am treating these cards lightly,”
he says, settling down with a filter-tip
and coffee, “but they can be treated
—um —seriously, too.” Next door, for
instance, the entire architectural staff
of Peddle, Thorp, and Walker’s had
a go with them and didn’t stop laughing
the whole afternoon. On the other
hand, as Mr. Augustine’s instructions
explain, people will be both astonished
and amazed at the accuracy of Personal
Destiny. “Oh, ladies are going to love
’em,” he’s got a figure from somewhere
that 400 million read horoscopes daily
round the world, “and they’re going
to buy these cards and sit over them
with a cup of coffee.” There will also
be the occasional lady who will read
them on the morning after the tiight
before, and wish she hadn’t.
Mr. Johnson settles down even fur-
ther for the um serious side of
his cards. He and Mr. Augustine, he
confides, are going to make a lot of
money out of them. They will go
like a bomb in Australia. He’s built
it up nicely with his ad which invites
Adults Only, not recommended for the
nervous and proper or the prim, to
peep behind the closed veil, amaze
others with their foresight, master
problems in advance and anticipate
with tingling excitement the facts of
life coming their way. Oh, and actual
cards made by sole supplier to Las
Vegas casinos. “They will last,” he
adds regretfully, he disapproves of this
sort of thinking, “a lifetime.”
Omar’s next novelty number is a
kiddies’ version of Personal Destiny
called Peep. With roses and ice-cream
and peaches and cream all over it.


I dont like
to miss
the bus.
Thai’s why
1 use Amoco!”
AMOCO
Who says?
Joe Griffin, Managing Director of Punch-
bowl Bus Co., one of the largest priv-
ately owned public carriers in the
Southern Hemisphere. “We’ve got 40
vehicles on the road running up a total
of over 40,000 miles a week. And carry-
ing more than a million passengers a
year is a large responsibility. We need
distillate oils and lubricants that will
keep us rolling. Our local Amoco repre-
sentative showed us how. We rely on
Amoco, and yes, we save money with
it, too.”
Each of our representatives is a special-
ist in industrial fuels and lubricants.
Talk to an Amoco man soon. He can
run a shrewd eye over your petroleum
needs and recommend the correct
product for all applications. And our
men are backed by the vast technical
resources of Amoco. If anyone can
come up with the right oil or lubricant
for your operation—we can. Just part of
the service. You expect more from
Amoco, and you get it. Call us. Ask for
the Industrial Sales Manager in your
State.
BRISBANE:
Admin. Bldg., Bulwer Island 60-4151
SYDNEY:
102/106 Arthur St., North Sydney 92-0842
MELBOURNE:
437 St. Kilda Road 26-3261
ADELAIDE:
38/40 Currie Street 51-2692
WOWWW;!;
1
. m
■
mim
mm
m
1


MR. HASLUCK AS PR MAN
Comment by ‘Observer’
“FOR THE PRESENT it is enough to
express the view that the needs of
democracy for information are not met
by the current methods of using a
‘public-relations exercise’ to try to
repair the shortcomings of the media
of public communication, but call for
some other means of bringing before
the voters, irrespective of party or
sectional interest, information objec-
tively prepared and clearly presented.”
Thus Mr. Paul Hasluck in a footnote
to his Sir Robert Garran Oration for
1968, which last week made news for
the less interesting reason that he
bluntly said (and quite rightly) that
Ministers can fall flat on their faces,
and so forth. But apply Mr. Hasluck’s
footnote to Mr. Hasluck himself as
External Affairs Minister and one finds
a curious expression of failure from a
man who is otherwise so intelligent,
diligent, and high-principled.
The sense of failure comes from
the fact that Mr. Hasluck asks a ques-
tion he cannot answer. He wonders if
there is “some other means” by which
he can overcome what he sees as the
“shortcomings of the media.” The only
reply he attempts to give is to refer
wistfully to “the voluminous official
reports” which, he says, remain unread.
But the answer to his question is
obvious enough: he should himself try
to make more interesting speeches.
Rousing public interest in what is
happening should be one of Mr. Has-
luck’s most important jobs as the
Minister of such an important port-
folio, involving, as it does, the whole
question of the kind of concepts Aus-
tralians are to have of themselves. If,
as might at first seem to be the case,
he doesn’t know how he could fill this
part of the job properly, he seems to
have deprived himself of a remedy if
he believes, as he said elsewhere in his
oration, that a Minister “has to resist
any temptation to form a ‘team’ —his
own team with himself as captain,
coach, and manager —out of his depart-
mental officers.”
Perhaps this prohibition should apply
to departmental officers. But it is
possible for a Minister to have his own
team around him without turning his
department into a bunch of stooges: if
necessary he can recruit them on a
temporary / basis from outside his
department. After all, the opposite of
a team is the one-man-band, and one-
man-bands are a funny way of run-
ning things in a complex, modern
society. This means that if Mr. Has-
luck can’t himself fill his political role
of arousing public interest in Aus-
tralia’s foreign policy, then he should
put together a team to help him. It is
no criticism of him to suggest that he
may have this personal deficiency a
politician can’t be good at everything
, . . ...
but it is a criticism to suggest that
he should do something about it.
n fact, Mr. Hasluck can make very
good speeches when he wants to. His
failure to interest his fellow country-
men in their possible role in the world
comes not from incompetence, but from
an intei esting stubbornness, with which
is connected a cunous misunderstanding
of how discussion on foreign affairs is
conducted. In only this respect has he
been an unworthy successor to Sir Gar-
field Barwick, Lord Casey, and Sir
reicy Spender, each of whom, when
Minister for External Affairs, succeeded
in trying to conceptualise for Austra-
lians a new' w r ay they could see them-
selves, without corrupting their Depart-
rnent ' -
The clue to both Mr. Hasluck’s stub-
bornness and to his misunderstanding
of his role as one of the nation’s most
important PR men is contained in his
references to “the shortcomings of the
media.” His views on the inadequacy
of the media are w'ell known. What is
less well known is what he is trying to
do about it. If they have difficulties
Ministers are not supposed merely to
grizzle about them; they are supposed
to get up and do the best they can. If
Mr. Hasluck wants the media-to con-
cern themselves with foreign- affairs in
a certain kind of way, why doesn’t he
have a go at trying to tempt
them to do so?
The answer is to be found partly in
other sections of the Sir Robert Garran
Oration, in words such as “objectivity,”
“perspicacity without passion,” and
“technical and expert knowledge.”
These admirable words have meaning,
but they are not final descriptions of
human beings making political decis-
ions. In such a mysterious and
impassioned field as the relations
between nations there cannot be the
same objectivity as there can be, at
least in aspiration, in a laboratory test.
The decisions of the External Affairs
Department must themselves to some
extent necessarily be based on incom-
plete knowledge, expedience, prejudice,
and passion; knowledge of them would
be very poor if it was based merely
on official reports, which must neces-
sarily suppress some of the facts about
the calculations that go into decision.
In this respect Mr. Hasluck seems close
to being one of those very “technicians”
whom he attacked so convincingly else-
where in his oration.
WHEELING AND DEALING IN THE ALP
Comment by Alan Reid
ALREADY AFFLICTED with
ideological and personality divisions,
the Labor Party has added a House of
Representatives-Senate split to its
troubles, one that is producing the kind
of shabby, “wheeler-dealer” operation
to further tarnish Labor’s battered
public image. For the first time for
months, the House of Representatives
section of the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Caucus last week rebelled suc-
cessfully against the Senate domination.
This domination has intensified since
Labor’s Representative numbers have
declined through successive electoral
routs, while Senate strength has
remained stable because of the Senate
proportional representation electoral
system.
The rebellion was sparked off by the
Government decision to give the Leader
of the Democratic Labor Party, Senator
Gair, an extra $lOOO a year in salary
and an allowance of $5OO a year in
expenses. In doing this, the Government
departed from the principle that there
should be no recognition of a Party
Leader unless he had ten followers in
the House of Representatives.
The money was not important. But
the status that the innovation gives
the DLP is important. It is acceptance
of the concept that the DLP has a per-
manent and continuing role in Aus-
tralian politics a concept that the
ALP has always passionately rejected.
The ALP Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party Executive met to consider
the Government’s DLP decision. Absent
from the meeting were Dr. J. Cairns
and Mr. Frank Crean, both Victorians.
The Executive did not consider prin-
ciples. Nor did it consider whether
Gair, as DLP Leader, did additional
work that entitled him to extra remun-
eration. The “wheeler-dealer” aspect
was too prominently to the fore.
The Executive decided that they
would not oppose the rise for Gair,
even though it meant recognition of
the DLP as a permanent parliamentary
factor and acquisition of a parliamen-
tary respectability that it has hitherto
lacked. The motivation was that if
Gair’s rise was not opposed the DLP
could be persuaded in joining the
Labor Opposition in a move in the
Senate to get the special remuneration
for Labor’s Leader there, Senator
Lionel Murphy, and Labor’s Senate
Deputy Leader, Sam Cohen, raised
from $5OOO and $1625 a year, respec-
tively, to the same level as Junior
Ministers $7500 a year. (This idea
did not come from the Senators them-
selves. )
But the move was too much for even
very strong stomachs. Martin Nicholls,


SA2BSA
*1
!!!! i m m 11 1
u v
ax
a c
K C
oc «
i
i imi ipi r
32D
pmg>
-«iia
31
a gentle
smoke
AMPHORA
This is Australia's leading imported pipe tobacco, for it is made from
the world's choicest tobacco leaf, each masterfully mellowed and
blended. 'Pick a pouch of Amphora in the blend to suit your taste
it will give a mild, gentle but satisfying enjoyment.
2oz.
68c
Regular blend is in the BROWN pouch, Mild Aro-
matic is in the BLUE and Full Aromatic is in the
RED pouch. Two ounces are only 68c. Also
available in Boz. tins for $2.67.
A product of Douwe Egberts Royal Factories, Utrecht, Holland.
m
SINCE 1753
from South Australia, and Arthur Cal-
well, the former Labor Leader, really
got stuck into the proposition.
Nicholls does not like the DLP,
believes that Labor should oppose them
implacably, and is opposed to being a
party to the kind of deals that pay the
price of the Party’s abandoning what
he considers should be the political
principles by which Labor should live.
Calwell, equally as implacably
opposed to the DLP, went a step fur-
ther. He pointed up the domination
that the Senators were establishing over
the Caucus, mainly, Calwell believes,
under the influence of Murphy, whom
Calwell considers is out to aggrandise
the Senate and its parliamentary role.
Not only is Calwell against this because
he believes that aggrandisement of the
Senate, where the DLP holds the bal-
ance of power, enhances the status of
the DLP but he also holds that this
is contrary to Labor Party policy.
The meeting degenerated into a con-
fused mess of points of order and
general disarray. Opposition Leader
Gough Whitlam, whose prestige had
declined because of his uncharacteristic-
ally inept handling of the censure
debate which gave Prime Minister John
Gorton a psychological triumph over
him earlier in the week, lost further
points. It was obvious, despite the
Executive’s recommendation, that no
clear-cut leadership was coming from
other than the Calwell-Nicholls section.
Caucus instructed its Senators to
oppose the rise for Gair with its implied
recognition of the DLP as a continu-
ing parliamentary force, irrespective of
its effect upon the move to secure
higher special pay for Murphy and
Cohen. After the meeting, quite a
number of Labor parliamentarians who
are generally regarded as being in the
middle group, neither pro-Whitlam nor
anti-Whitlam, complained it was one of
the worst Caucus meetings, as regards
leadership, they had attended for a
long time.
The Senators did not like the Caucus
decision. When the Senate reassembled
to discuss parliamentary pay and allow-
ances, Murphy tried to get the adjourn-
ment of the debate. He explained later
to Caucus colleagues who questioned
what he was trying to do that this was
to enable him to draft the amendments
that he proposed to move as an out-
come of the Labor Caucus decisions.
But quite a number of Labor par-
liamentarians suspected that some, at
least, of the Labor Senators wanted to
get time in which to regroup their
forces to secure a revision of the
Caucus decision, and to give them time
in which to negotiate with Gair and
the DLP for support.
Calwell apparently heard or
shared this suspicion. He took
action to see that the legislation went
through as ordered by the Caucus. As
he told one colleague: “The Senators
are not going to run this Party if I
can prevent it—l’ll do everything pos-
sible to see that they follow Caucus
decisions even if they have to sit in
the Senate chamber all night.”


AUSTRALIA
Defence not tripping on the tripwire
Left: John Gorton at a Singapore banquet
Above: Listening to Tunku Abdul Rahman in Malaysia’s
House of Representatives
IT IS A TRICK as old as politics: to
drown out your opponent’s attack by
producing something more newsworthy.
So, last week, as Federal Cabinet met
before Opposition Leader Whitlam’s
censure motion, its twelve just men
were determined to find some news
they could make.
For the first time, although it has
had it for 12 weeks, Cabinet talked
about the “strategic reassessment.” The
assessment had plumped strongly for
maintaining forces in the Malaysia/
Singapore area for the time being, and
for keeping them there on an informal
basis beyond 1971 and the British
departure. The idea was that a lack of
clear treaty commitments would keep
open Australia’s option of withdrawing
at any time, should threats develop
which it could not cope with, or should
it look as though there was danger of
getting involved in internal conflicts.
Cabinet accepted this viewpoint, but
Prime Minister Gorton had strong
doubts about it and was at one stage
arguing for a 1969 withdrawal of the
Army battalion. To begin with, in
January, after the British announced
their accelerated withdrawal, Mr. Gor-
ton had said there was no question of
Australia pulling out prematurely: “We
are certainly keeping our forces at
their present level there, over the
period of four years (to 1971) before
the British completely withdraw.”
External Affairs Minister Hasluck was
even firmer, saying that there was no
question that Australia would maintain
a military presence in Malaysia. He
even rubbished the idea that there was
particular Australian concern with
the timing of the British withdrawal:
“1971 is not a point of timetable as
far as we are concerned. It is a date
that is significant only to the British.
For the Malaysians and Australians,
1971 does not terminate anything...”
But with President Johnson’s abdica-
tion and the weakening of the Ameri-
can posture in Vietnam, Mr. Gorton
became firmer in his desire to “avoid
Asian entanglements.” He and his sup-
porters developed the “tripwire theory,”
a conservative version of an old Left-
wing idea that the mere existence of
military forces overseas gets Australia
into trouble, because by some inexor-
able process its troops would one day
inevitably find themselves involved in
race riots and the like. So Mr. Gor-
ton started working for an earlier with-
drawal.
No firm commitments were made at
the June five-power talks in Kuala
Lumpur, but the Australians at the
talks—Mr. Hasluck and Mr. Fairhall—
made tentative offers, which they have
been fighting with Mr. Gorton ever
since. By September, the Prime
Minister had “agreed in principle” to
what he had declared as firm policy
in January: that the battalion would
stay at least until 1971. Certain
Malaysian assurances were required of
assistance with accommodation and
supplies. Last week’s Cabinet firmed
that agreement of principle and decided
on an announcement which the Prime
Minister then made in the course of
replying to Mr. Whitlam.
The Army battalion will probably
have to shift, because the departure of
the British in the middle of next year
from Terendak barracks in Malaysia
will mean that this $25 million camp,
only coniDleted in 1962, will almost
certainly be closed down. One of the
best equipped and maintained Army
bases in the world, it was described in
proud and glowing terms until recently
in Army public relations material.
According to one. “Terendak Camp
plavs a leading role in the Australian
defence pattern,” and the base itself was
a “showpiece.” But unless the Malay-
sians are able to move a new brigade
in to replace the British, it will be
closed and the Australians will be
moved.
A team of Army men has just
returned from Malaysia to report to the
Australian Government on where the
battalion should go. The alternatives
to Terendak are Minden barracks at
Penang on the north-east coast of
Malaysia, or Sembarwang just south of
the causeway on Singapore. The idea
of “degarrisoning” the troops by hav-
ing them in temporary camps like those
in Vietnam seems to have been aban-
doned. The cost would be less because
families would be left behind, but this
was considered bad for morale. The
Malaysia posting is said to be one of
the attractions of the Army, and it is
said by recruitment officers to be a
major factor in sustaining enlistment.
The denial of the facilities of an estab-
lished base, together with the oppor-
tunity to take wives and families, would
be a major blow to the Army.
At Penang the Australian troops
would be closer to the area of insur-
gency along the Thai border. When
the Diggers were first sent to Malaysia
in the mid-’sos they were based just
south of Penang at Taiping, and they
operated against Chin Peng’s insur-
gents from there. But some diplomats
would like to see the troops based in
Singapore at Sembarwang, from where
they could then make daily border
crossings across the causeway into Kota
Tingi, the famous jungle-training area.
It is felt that Australian troops could
become a force for reconciliation
between Malaysia and Singapore if they
had to make movement between the
two countries a routine.
Beyond 1971, Australia’s defence
posture is as uncertain as ever, though
there is a certain momentum of involve-
ment in South-East Asia now develop-
ing. Though it isn’t completely ruled
out, a defence statement as promised
for this parliamentary session on the


“strategic reassessment” is said by the
Prime Minister’s staff to be most
unlikely now. As seen by Mr. Gorton
and his followers, any initiatives or
commitments must be deferred because
of imponderables. To quote Mr. Gor-
ton from his parliamentary speech:
“Imponderables which are not yet
clear but which may, and probably will,
become clearer over the coming year.”
Mr. Gorton is mainly waiting for a
clarification of American policies with
Mr. Nixon. This approach drives
many people in Canberra to impatient
outbursts against the Government; they
say that the future is always full of
imponderables, in foreign policy
especially. There are not really many
more imponderables now than there are
ever going to be. If the Government
knows a little more about Mr. Nixon
next year it will probably find that new
imponderables have arisen. In this
view the Government’s approach be-
comes an excuse for aimless drift.
Mr. Fairhall hinted at his impatience
in his choice of words in his contribu-
tion to the parliamentary debate: “In
response to the public need for reas-
oned information, this Government
will surely present a defence program
for the future as soon as possible.”
Speaking of the five-power talks, he
said that in June the Government had
made conditional offers of military
assistance to the Malaysians and Singa-
poreans. There was a hint of impatience
in his statement: “The conditions have
been in process of being hammered out
ever since. The Government will surely
give its thought to those matters when
they are fully presented.”
Mr. Fairhall reiterated once again
his personal belief in the absolute neces-
sity for a forward posture: “In our
future associations with South - East
Asia, quite definitely we must work
with other nations of the region
because we have a joint interest in the
security and development of that part
of the world.” He had been strength-
ened in this by the unanimous report
of the Government Members’ Defence
Committee when the 30 Members of
the Committee approved unanimously
the report to Cabinet which called for
the maintenance of forward defence
forces in South - East Asia, and the
desirability of strengthening regional
arrangements.
It looks as though the Country Party
is also coming out against Mr. Gorton’s
isolation tendencies. Mr. Sinclair, the
possible next Leader after Mr. Mc-
Ewen’s retirement, attacked the idea of
pulling out of South-East Asia
vigorously: “If such a narrow and
restricted defence policy were adopted,
the capacity of Australia to participate
as may be necessary in a time of
changing world pressures would be
reduced.
“It is, regrettably, true that
the world around us is in a state of
ferment. It is not possible to ascertain
today what will necessarily take place
tomorrow or the day after. Equally, it
becomes difficult to assess what is to
happen in even the medium- or the
long-term in any of the principal areas
of the world. This Government has con-
sistently acted in the belief that Aus-
tralia must have a capacity to defend
the land mass of Australia and
also to participate in defending
those regional arrangements which
have so necessarily been part of the
strategy that the Government has pur-
sued over the past two decades. Our
involvement in regional security
arrangements and our continuance of
responsible action have reflected in the
credit, status, and standing of Aus-
tralians in South-East Asia. This
status is present not only in South-East
Asia but also in every other region
of the world.”
VIETNAM
NOT GOING ALONG
WHEN Mr. Gorton sent his message
to the South Vietnamese Government
suggesting that they take President
Johnson’s advice and attend the
enlarged peace talks at Paris, he didn’t
have time to consult his Cabinet. There
were a number of doubts about being
all-the-way with LBJ on this one, since
the Australian Government has always
in the past been firm that the Viet
Cong should not be recognised as
separate from the North Vietnamese.
Mr. Gorton’s statement at the time was
somewhat ambiguous. To Saigon there
was the gesture of a phrase to the
effect that we understood their reserva-
tions, but the clear import of the mes-
sage was that we thought, like the
Americans, that they should go along
all the same.
But Defence Minister Fairhall, lead-
ing the Government in last week’s
parliamentary debate, hardened up the
Government position with this interpre-
tation: “We have encouraged the South
Vietnamese to participate in these peace
talks when conditions are satisfactory
to them.” Even if it didn’t get much
attention in the Press here, political
officers at several Embassies sent urgent
cables back home on this shift in the
Government line.
MR. WHITLAM
THE GLUM SILENCE
IF SOME Government supporters
think these days of Mr. Gorton as an
interim leader who might not last much
beyond the next elections, a greater
number of Labor men see Mr. Whitlam
as someone who might not still be leader
even before the elections. He could go
any time. All that is required is a con-
tentious issue in which he finds himself
in a minority, a call for a “spill” of
leadership positions, and Mr. Whitlam’s
political career is as good as finished.
It is generally agreed that he is in
danger of losing the numbers in the
Parliamentary Labor Party Caucus.
This was last tested in April, when,
Whitlam . ..adopted censure motion
in a fit of pique, he resigned. He only
regained the leadership by six votes
(38 to 32) in the contest with Dr. Jim
Cairns. He has probably lost at least
one of these votes with the changes in
the Senate.
No one knows how many of his
former supporters have deserted him
lately, but his performance in Parlia-
ment has been patchy. It reached an
all-time low in his speech on the
general censure of the Government in
Parliament last week.
His fellow Labor Members sat
glumly silent behind him as he rambled
through a weak and often trivial
critique of the Government’s perform-
ance. He spoke at enormous length
about the failure of the Government
to standardise obscure sections of rail-
way, and of the lack of legislation on
sedentary fish. It was also a careless
speech, containing a number of easily
rebutted assertions, which made marvel-
lous ammunition for Government
speakers.
His supporters are pondering why he
ever took the motion on. The story
behind the censure motion is that it
was initiated by Mr. Arthur Calwell,
who told Caucus he intended to move
for such a censure of the Government.
Hearing of this, and feeling that such
an independent move would humiliate
the leadership of the Party, the Execu-
tive adopted the suggestion themselves.
They had sounded out Labor men and
found that Mr. Calwell had mustered
considerable support for his move.
So Mr. Whitlam was never keen on
the motion, and went into it half-
heartedly. His criticisms of the Govern-
ment were ones he had made several
times before, and Labor men said he
showed disastrous judgment in not con-
centrating on a few major issues and
in not focusing his attack on the Prime
Minister himself.
He got a particularly bad Press. Many


quite sympathetic journalists had been
given to expect a really dazzling per-
formance. They gave him a good pub-
licity build-up and then they were let
down. Some may therefore have reacted
more strongly against his performance
than they would have done otherwise.
Defence Minister Fairhall, in a
sparkling speech following Mr. Whitlam,
scored heavily off the Labor Party by
pointing out the Opposition’s general
lack of interest in defence. Only three
of Mr. Whitlam’s 103 questions on
notice related to defence. In two weeks
of parliamentary sittings neither he nor
Army Minister Lynch had been asked a
single question. In the debate on the
Budget, defence, which takes the second
largest slice of Government money, had
not been the subject of a single word
from Mr. Whitlam. Urgency motions
could be called at any time: “The init-
iative rests with the Opposition. The
fact is that in the past it has failed to
exercise it.” In attacking Mr. Gorton on
defence, Labor was playing from one of
its own greatest weaknesses.
CURRENCY CRISIS
AUSTRALIA'S DILEMMA
THE AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT
was particularly well informed about the
present international financial crisis,
because the Treasurer, Mr. McMahon,
had just returned from Europe and
North America. He was able to speak
to most of the people involved in the
present crisis talks in Bonn.
The Australian Government wasn’t
attempting to minimise the seriousness
of the situation. It believed that there
would be some changes in exchange
rates. Most hoped for was an upward
revaluation of the German mark, but the
McMahon...fight for the $?
Germans, of course, are strongly resist-
ing this. It would hurt their farmers
by making food imports more competi-
tive, and anything which hurts farmers
will swell the semi-Nazi National
Democratic Party vote in next year’s
election at the.expense of the Govern-
ment. But the Gnomes are very
powerful and they may be able to
finally force the Germans into revalua-
tion.
Otherwise the French franc was con-
sidered certain to devalue, one way or
the other, with some other currencies
going down. The big imponderable was
whether sterling would drop again as
well. People in the Treasury in Can-
berra seemed to think it probably would,
since they think that the British
Government’s efforts at economic
readjustment since the devaluation last
year have been pretty ineffectual.
It is just possible that the Americans
would have to drop the value of the
dollar, too, in which case the Japanese
yen, the German mark, and the Dutch
guilder would be the only currencies
maintaining their value. Australia
wouldn’t join that lonely group, and
the Australian dollar would go down
with the crowd.
In the case of the franc and sterling
going, the Australian Government
would really be in a dilemma. People
in the Treasury will argue that
Australia has the trading strength to
hold its currency, but they say it with
less conviction than last year. This
time, Mr. McEwen and the Country
Party would fight tenaciously for an
Australian devaluation, and the indica-
tions are that the Treasurer would not
take them on.
POLITICIANS' PAY
NO RIDICULE?
“WE VE HARDLY had a peep out of
them,” said one letter - editor. His
letter-writing public seemed peculiarly
inert about the announcement that
Federal and Victorian parliamentary
salaries would rise by over $2OOO to
$9500 and $9750 respectively. It was
a sleeper. Two days later a colleague
reported a “terrific mail.”
“It takes a while for the point to
sink in,” the second newspaperman
said. Although the reaction was not
exactly a flood of indignation, it was
apparently unexpected. In Victoria,
where rises for State parliamentarians
only preceded the Federal increase by
a day, the media had by no means
cleared the decks for a campaign. In
times of affluence, rises for Victorian
backbenchers of $2150 and $2500 for
the Federal Members were large but
not outrageous.
The Press certainly did not quickly
begin to taunt the politicians In the
way that Mr. Harry Turner seemed to
anticipate. Speaking in the House of
Representatives, Mr. Turner berated the
Press for its past treatment of parlia-
mentary pay rises, charging that the
Fourth Estate had treated poli-
ticians with “hatred, ridicule, and con-
tempt” up and down the country after
the last Federal pay rise in 1964.
Whether the mass media would give
a repeat performance depended upon
the scale of public feeling, but it seems
unlikely that the stir of the 1959
Federal salary increases, or even the
1964 increases, will be matched again.
The brunt of the knuckle-rapping, if
there is any at all, should emanate from
Victoria, as it is some months since
Queensland and Western Australian
parliamentarians upped their salaries
and there are no impending claims by
other State politicians. Continually in-
creasing affluence must eat into the
ranks of the traditional politician-
haters. When everyone else is out for
as much as they can get, a collective
shoulder may shrug, “What can you
expect?”
An interesting aspect of the current
stir will be the result of opinion polls.
A changed volume of letters-to-the-
Bolte ... $19.000 plus allowances
editor may say very little about the
respect an Australian gives to his rulers,
but a change from the 70 percent
against politicians’ pay rises may say
something vague about more lively con-
cern or greater faith in the quality of
the people’s representatives. Given the
tenacity of past attitudes, a change
would be a revolution.
A change may be more likely in Vic-
toria, where Parliament at least had the
grace to appoint a committee, which
came to the belief that Members spent
50 to 60 hours per week on parliamen-
tary and constituent duties, but the
Federal Government’s peremptory in-
crease would not be viewed so kindly.
As one letter-editor said, the bulk of
the protests will come from the fixed-
income group and pensioners, and
mostly from those pensioners who can
afford such a frivolous waste of five
cents.


ACCIDENTS
STOPPING AN EPIDEMIC
BREATHALYSERS and their use were
headline news in three States last week;
in Victoria, where Police Commissioner
Arnold threatened to catch any motorist
with an .05 alcohol content, even if it
meant patrols outside hotels at clos-
ing time; in New South Wales, where
.08 legislation is impending and Trans-
port Minister Morris advised motorists
to take 80c “breath kits” with them
to Christmas parties to try to avoid a
$4OO fine; and in Queensland, where
police were alleged to be stopping
motorists for tests in the manner pro-
posed in Victoria, and there were pro-
tests that Parliament had been
promised no one would be breath-
tested unless he was driving erratically
or breaking the law.
That all of this happened in the
wake of a very bad week s for road
deaths 17 in Victoria, 20 in N.S.W.,
and eight in Queensland during a
non-holiday period did not settle any
disputes which might continue to arise
from police use of breathalysers, nor
reactions from pressure groups involved
by implication (“sheer hysteria,” which
should be replaced by “research into
hundreds of other contributing factors,”
was the Hotels Association reply to
Commissioner Arnold), it did lend great
weight to the general concern being
shown over the road toll last week.
This was evident not only in the
“breathalyser” headlines, with stories
more concerned with the legalisms, but
also in morning daily newspaper editor-
ials on driving generally. But then
there was the unfortunate circumstance
that most arose from addresses and dis-
cussions at the Australian Automobile
Association’s annual conference early in
the * week, leaving, apparently,: little
more to be said at the week’s end,
when the Australian Medical Association
released its policy on road safety, which
had been three years in the making.
It did not seem to have occurred
to the doctors that publicity, however
good the cause, is difficult to obtain
equally with another outbreak of the
same cause within the same week. The
AMA’s ten-page policy, covering 20
recommendations, was widely distribu-
ted to all media, but had a distinctly
marked release deadline: “Not for Pub-
lication before 6 p.m. on Thursday,
November 21.” This was standard
enough procedure, and in other circum-
stances the message might have got
through to more daily media than the
ABC, the “Australian,” and the “Age,”
despite the doctors’ slow-running prose.
That it did not had to be due to
something built in to the community;
something-overlooked and perhaps best
expressed by the fact that the Aus-
tralian news media, while highlighting
the seriousness of the higher State
road tolls (17 in Victoria, eight in
Queensland, etc.), do not equally high-
light the Australia-wide numbers (more
than 50 in that particular week, and
more than 60 dead each week on
average) nor is there any means for
them to obtain this figure, or any public
demand for it to be known and shown.
Against this “don’t want to know”
factor similar calls, at the AAA con-
ference early in the week and the AMA
Press conference at week’s end, both of
them for a Federal organisation to co-
ordinate and control accident preven-
tion and produce a vigorous research
policy and co-ordinate all research into
accidents on an Australia-wide basis,
went almost unnoticed. The AAA call
gained space in a Western Australian
newspaper because a local delegate
initiated it, and the AMA call was pub-
lished in truncated form without the
all-important research suggestions high-
lighted as the AMA obviously would
have wanted them to be.
Figures and feedback were the vital
components of the AMA’s policy, and
Morris ... not the 80c party kit
it got right down to them in its first
three recommendations
1. That a Government-appointed
body be set up at national level with
power to conduct and support scientific
research into tfife factors responsible
for road accidents, and to recommend
appropriate counter-measures; such a
body to be similar in organisation to
t% National Health and Medical
Research Council.
2. All States and Territories should
provide to the proposed research body
uniformly defined information about
accidents, vehicles, and drivers, acces-
sible through modern data-handling
processes. (Later the AMA pointed out
that policemen investigating accidents,
besides being interested mainly in in-
surance rather than medical aspects,
ask different questions in different
States, making the answers statistically
useless for medical research.)
3. The effectiveness of counter-
measures, in being or proposed, should
be scientifically determined in order to
ascertain to what extent they reduce
road accidents, or whether they have
any positive effect.
4. Priorities between competing
counter-measures should be determined
on the basis of cost-effectiveness.
The AMA thus obliquely stated its
healthy distrust for many of the road-
safety measures and palliatives being
used, and might, be thought to have
said, “We doubt anything that hasn’t
a sound scientific basis; give all police-
men in Australia the same accident
form, have a national body to co-
ordinate the resulting statistics, and
let’s get down to deciding what are
useful measures to lessen road acci-
dents, and what are measures not
worth the cost in money or human
lives.”
The AMA’s policy is to look at
road accidents like any other epidemic
costing more than 3000 Australian
lives each year and maiming 75,000
people. It says doctors have a primary
concern in this epidemic, as the people
who have to treat the 75,000, but does
not believe their interest ends there.
“Preventive medicine” to ease the epi-
demic must extend into engineering,
equipment, education, and enforce-
ment. In each of these areas there
are special facets in which the medical
profession has particular knowledge
and interest.
In engineering, for instance, “the
medical profession can help the road
design engineer firstly by research into
vision in relation to speed. The eye
is poorly designed for judging speeds
above about 40 m.p.h., especially with
side vision. The eye height of the driver
above road level in modern cars is
down to about 3ft. 9in., therefore
crests must be flatter than they used
to be. On curves the alignment ahead
must be in no doubt, even for a
moment.”
After similar glances at traffic con-
trol devices, street lighting, and other
road “furniture,” the AMA says “these
features should be controlled by one
responsible body, not, as at present,
fragmented among several Government
departments” and recommends that
“State Governments should be urged
to establish a single controlling
authority over the whole system of road
design and construction, traffic-
engineering and street lighting, in order
to allow a co-ordinated attack on the
road - accident problem.” (Perhaps
ironically, at the same time a conference
of Australian State traffic control
engineers was meeting in Hobart.)
The AMA and its road-safety policy
are both too weighty to fail to have
some effect politically, but it may have
forgotten that politicians represent and
respond to people, especially clamor-
ing people, whose voice needs to be
started before it can swell. “Don’t want
to know” has yet to be overcome. So
have pressures the AMA policy (which
mentions a radical non-fault insur-
ance) might give rise to, including its
preference for .05 as the safe breath-
alyser level, against, say, the higher .08
one which N.S.W. is about to adopt.


fid
Ud
0
cana
n
**
CVrs
o
r\
KJ
u
D
* *■
‘call-a-number’ rate)
new ‘call-a-number’ service saves you 25%
Ask the operator to connect you to a number, not a person to
save 25% on your 3-minute call to Canada or mainland U.S.A.
The rate per additional minute for 'Person to person' calls is
also down from $3.60 to $2.70 on weekdays and from
$2.70 to $2.03 on Sundays.
new Sunday rates It's cheaper to call Canada and U.S.A. on
Sundays (that is, any time between midnight, Saturday and
midnight, Sunday). The cheapest way of all is to take the double
cost-saving advantage of 'Call-a-number' and 'Sunday Con-
cession'. Take a look at these rates ... /
New rates for telephone calls from
anywhere in Australia to anywhere
in mainland U.S.A. or Canada
I
F 5678
speeds your words across the world
dial 016 for anywhere in the world
(If you are outside the metropolitan
Telephone Directory area, refer to your directory
for the International Trunks number).
THE OVERSEAS TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)


MR. HASLUCK
PUZZLED OR PUZZLING?
MR. HaSLUCK seemed genuinely
puzzled last week at the reaction to
his lecture on “The Public Servant
and Politics.” He really seemed amazed
that it should have been taken as
criticism of his fellow Ministers and
he didn’t look at all as though he
were acting out indignation in order
to cover up his indiscretion.
But perhaps he makes his criticisms
via his subconscious. Because his claim
that he was only theorising and speak-
ing of past administrations simply
didn’t wash. Too many of the examples
of alleged misuse of the Public Service
closely fitted known relationships in
Canberra and in his prepared text
he spoke in the present tense.
His sharpest comment was: “There
is also a deplorable tendency on the
part of Ministers to involve public
servants too deeply in their ministerial
affairs. (I exclude from these remarks
Secretaries of Departments, who have
been selected and appointed by the
executive and stand in a special rela-
tionship to it.) The appointment of
departmental officers as ministerial
private secretaries requires care on both
sides. It is not necessary for a Minister
to require such an officer to become
his own political possession, and it is
not necessary for the public servant to
identify himself with his Minister’s
politics or to become involved in a
substantive way in the Minister’s con-
stituency affairs. Unfortunately it
sometimes happens that they do.
“Another risk has emerged in the
growing use of public-relations officers
by Ministers. Sometimes they are
drawn from the Public Service and
the nature of their work brands them
unmistakably as belonging to one
political herd. Forever after they can
be recognised half a mile off in the
centre of the mob by the nicks in their
ears. Apart from the undesirability of
this kind of political identification of
Hasluck ... no Press secretary
a public servant, it might also be
recognised that much of the so-called
public-relations work of today is con-
trary to the ideal of objectivity in the
Public. Service, and falls below the
professional standard that the Public
Service might set for itself.”
Rightly or wrongly, this was taken
in Canberra as a reference to the
Prime Minister, Mr. Gorton, who has
a very close political relationship with
his departmental head, Mr. Hewitt.
Mr. Hewitt, of course, was appointed
after the former head, Sir John Bunt-
ing, had been shunted into a backwater,
a newly created Department of Cabinet
office. Mr. Hewitt, a long-time personal
friend of Mr. Gorton, has his office
next door to the Prime Minister and
leaves the detailed running of the
department to his deputy. He is at
Mr. Gorton’s side many tens of hours
each week, and is usually present when
people visit the Prime Minister.
This criticism by Mr. Hasluck is
taken to follow the lines of one in
late July when he philosophised at
the opening meeting of ASPAC: “Even
in politics you need some training
before you meet the great tests of
political life, and in international
politics we do need a period of train-
ing”
Finally, in his address to the
Institute of Public Administration, Mr.
Hasluck criticised “the growing use of
public-relations officers by Ministers.”
He is the only senior Minister who has
never had a Press secretary.
AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
TARIFF ASSISTANCE
DR. JIM CAIRNS waved the brightly
colored twin-tailed model aircraft over
the table of the House of Representa-
tives. “It flies, which is something the
Fill doesn’t seem to do,” he said.
But neither the display of the model
of the Transavia Airtruk, nor Cairns’
comparison with the Fill was neces-
sary to encourage both Opposition and
Government MPs to join him in
denouncing the Tariff Board’s refusal
to provide assistance to the Australian
light aircraft industry.
In the case of Transavia Corpora-
tion’s application for a bounty for the
Airtruk, an agricultural three-seater,
300 horsepower aircraft, able to cruise
at 90 knots and carry a 19401 b. load,
the Board’s decision seemed a little
unusual. Transavia sought a bounty
of $310,460, spread over three years
for the first 85 Airtruks produced, on
a reducing scale.
The Board said there was little pros-
pect of the Airtruk being produced
“profitably without a level of assistance
out of all proportion to the probable
gains to the economy,” yet it admitted
that production costs of the aircraft
were being progressively reduced and
that Transavia could secure 25 percent
of the small market for light aircraft.
The Board praised Transavia for show-
Cairns ... assessment was mistaken
ing “considerable ingenuity” in reduc-
ing labor costs, but predicted future
wage increases would “add signifi-
cantly” to the company’s cost structure.
The Airtruk’s export potential was
“too uncertain.” Transavia was unlikely
to sell more than 15 aircraft a year
in Australia, and not more than 10
a year to New Zealand, so the com-
pany “had little hope of achieving
anything like the sale of 50 Airtruks
on which its chances of profitable
operation were said to be based.”
Speaking on the adjournment of the
House last week, Dr. Cairns declared
the Board’s assessment was mistaken.
Labor believed that even if an industry
did need more than 50 percent protec-
tion, this should not be refused if the
industry was efficient. But in Tran-
savia’s case, he argued, the bounty
sought would be equivalent to only 30
percent. The Board’s project of export
potential was a “considerable under-
estimate.”
Government Right-winger Malcolm
Mackay, who rarely if ever agrees
with Cairns, this time joined him to
demand the Board take a second look
at its decision. Judging by murmurs
of discontent elsewhere in Parliament,
Transavia’s hopes for future assistance
might not be as gloomy as they earlier
seemed.
ABORTION
THE BLIND EYE
SYDNEY’S blue-ribbon Liberal elec-
torate of Northcott has become the
pacesetter for those who want the New
South Wales Government to catch up
with South Australia and Western Aus-
tralia by introducing a Bill to legalise
abortion in N.S.W. Curiously, this is
happening against the wishes of the
Member for Northcott, Mr. J. A.
Cameron.
It began earlier this year when the


No need to
tie up
your money
for a
fixed period
to earn at
NET P.A.
INVEST WITH THE
N.S.W.
PERMANENT’
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
There is no fixed period
required for you to
earn a secured, safe
6% net p.a. return.
Withdrawals may be
made easily in full, or
part, without loss or
penalty of earnings.
Make a sound
investment with
Australia's leading
permanent building
society, with assets of $57,000,000, and see
your money grow with safety.
No costs or charges • Starts earning from
first day • Earnings paid twice yearly, June
and December.
FREE INVESTMENT PACK GIVES YOU ALL
DETAILS—SEND YOUR COUPON NOW OR
PHONE:
Bondi Junction Branch: 5A Bronte Road 38 5259
Burwood Branch: 109 Burwood Road 747 4426
Chatswood Branch: 797 Pacific Highway 419 2261
Parramatta Branch: 331 Church St., 635 4990
Manly Branch: 68 The Corso, 97 3259
Double Bay Branch; 6 Hunter's Arcade.
16 Cross St 32 7927
Bill
FUND
Funds guaranteed
for withdrawal up to
slo,oooperinvestor
1 TO: N.S.W. PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY LTD., |
- Building Society House, 307 Pitt Street, Syd-«
■ ney. Phone 2-0620. Please mail me your new 1
(investment pack without obligation to me.
J Name J
I Address |
NS6 ®
AUSTRALIA'S LEADING PERMANENT BUILDING SOCIETY
Northcott Liberal Conference held a
symposium on legalising abortion, with
speakers for and against, and Professor
Henry Mayer, of Sydney University,
mediating between the illusions of both
camps, or, as some would say, sitting
on the fence. Professor Mayer is one of
Australia’s leading experts on abortion
and is working on a book dealing with
abortion in Australia from the First
Fleet to the present day, and examin-
ing the philosophic, theological, and
social issues involved. After the sym-
posium, the Northcott conference
passed a motion in favor of legalising
abortion under proper medical super-
vision. Their member, Mr. Cameron,
strongly opposed this motion and issued
a Press statement saying that it showed
a strange moral attitude when, if it
were announced that Australian graziers
were killing 100,000 kangaroos a year,
there would be an enormous outcry,
but there is no outcry when it is
reported that there are 100,000 abor-
tions a year in Australia.
Late last month Mr. Murray Wilcox,
a 31-year-old barrister, a member of
the Northcott Conference and of the
N.S.W. Liberal Party State Council,
persuaded the State Council to press
Parliament to legalise abortion if the
mother is pregnant as a result of rape,
incest, or unlawful carnal knowledge.
However, only about 80 Liberals were
present at this meeting of State Council,
and the Government of N.S.W. is not
impressed. Mr. Wilcox denies that he
is running a campaign on the matter;
he says he simply spoke up for com-
monsense and will let the matter rest.
The abortion reformers, however, are
continuing to put pressure on all local
members, and the Civil Liberties Coun-
cil has sent every member a copy of
its pamphlet calling for reform.
Mr. Askin’s Government is taking the
conservative or safe view'. It believes
that the vast majority of abortions are
not “hard cases” but matters of conveni-
ence and it does not feel that there is
any public clamor to make this conveni-
ence more convenient. It also claims
that foreign experience indicates that
legalising abortion does not in fact
reduce the number of illegal abortions.
At the moment abortion is allowed in
N.S.W. if it is to save the mother’s life
or sanity, for the rest the Government
still maintains the traditional view that
adoption of unwanted children and
proper care for handicapped children is
the better path for public policy, while
still turning a blind eye to medically
supervised abortions that would be other-
wise illegal.
There is, as yet, no counter move to
increase the prosecution of qualified
doctors who practise abortion although
there is pressure for a blitz of backyard
operators and for a word of caution to
doctors who have become too easy going.
N.S.W. obviously has a long way to go
before it catches up with South Aus-
tralia or Western Australian in this
controversy.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DRINKS AT 20
WHEN THE South Australian Govern-
ment rejected some weeks ago an
Opposition motion to lower the age of
legal responsibility to 18, Attorney-
General Millhouse announced that he
would bring the whole matter before
the Attorneys-General Standing Com-
mittee for consideration by State and
Federal Governments. He felt it was
not something one State should go into
alone. He was, however, prepared
to act immediately on lowering the
legal drinking age to 18.
Last week, his Bill was rejected 19-
18 on a conscience vote which seemed
to be more conscience-striken than free.
The Bill was then amended to provide
for the lowering of the minimum drink-
ing age by one year only, and was
passed 25-12.
The main curiosity of the debate
was the behaviour of some Labor Mem-
bers. Having previously voted to lower
the age of legal responsibility to 18,
they found a variety of reasons to vote
freely against the drinking age changes,
and, joining with LCL opponents of
the measure, they effectively confused
the issue. The LCL member for Vic-
toria, Mr. Rodda, put the opponents’
case plainly, paternally, and with a
fine old South Australian nonconformist
ring. “Young people are our most
precious possession,” he said, “but for
the life of me I cannot see that allow-
ing them to drink strong liquor at a
tender age will be good for them or the
community.”
As the debate limped along the Mem-
bers were variously called upon to ex-
plain shifting motives, Premier Hall
was moved to remark that some of (he
speeches had been “more in the nature
of confessions than statements.” Sup-
porting the complete lowering, he said
that young people were drinking at
18 years of age whether Parliament
liked it or not, and if they couldn’t get
liquor legally they would get it from
friends.
Attorney-General Millhouse spoke
longest and clearest on the matter. “In
the next few years,” he said, “the age
of majority will be reduced in this and
other communities in the democratic
world. We, as Members of this Par-
liament, can act like King Canute if
we like and throw this Bill out. The
tide will overwhelm us in due course.”
With the vote finally taken for drinks
at 20, the Bill will now have to face
an Upper House, which tends in most
things to favor the status quo. It could
reject it out of hand. The Leader of
the Opposition in the Council, Mr.
Shard, announced that the four Labor
Members will support a move to have
the age of 18 reinserted in the Bill,
but it was Assembly Leader Don Dun-
stan who succinctly expressed what
most observers were feeling. No longer
hoping for the full measure, he said
forlornly “Do we have the status quo,
or do we make a limping hesitant move
toward the 21st century?”


, 'Sham' ,
champagne?
It’s cheaper. That’s because
it’s made quickly in big tanks with
extra yeast introduced
to speed up the fermentation.
Admittedly, it pops like real
champagne and it almost
bubbles like real champagne.
(But have you ever noticed
how fast it goes flat.) In fact,
if we didn’t point it out you might
think it was the Real McCoy.
Until you tasted it.
or PENFOLDS
Minchinbury?
Minchinbury is made by the classic
champagne method —in the bottle.
No big-tank, forced fermentation.
At Minchinbury, we let nature
take care of the fermentation
and the long, slow maturation to
give the crisp bubbly taste
that’s the sign ofa great champagne.
And because of this slow
natural process, Minchinbury costs
you a little more. But come now,
it’s Christmas, isn’t it?
• •
1
■
plflllli
■ ■ I■
I m
® ! ™ BKs - 1 " m
WSWwi*
IS
■I
©
(Unc/tt/i/uvi
: ?//«>>• 'W
l< Zi/S //i/if/y/f«
m
mg&L*\ ':
:■■:■■ v , :
PENF®LDS Minchinbury makes it memorable
PW1494


INTERNATIONAL
Going down
with de Gaulle
PRESIDENT DE GAULLE, by refus-
ing to devalue the franc, seems deter-
mined to bring the world monetary
system crashing down. The pound is
now desperately vulnerable. The devalu-
ation of last November has still not had
time to work properly and the currency
is still weak. It is now possible that the
measures introduced last Friday by the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Roy
Jenkins, will be seen as insufficient.
Britain must now be prepared
possibly not for further measures to curb
consumer demand but for the strong
chance of import controls and measures
to check the flow of funds to sterling-
area countries.
The General’s intentions look depress-
ingly simple. His aim in life has always
been to humble the dollar and to raise
Europe as the third force between the
super-powers.
Part of that plan was to press for a
return to the gold standard. To this end
he has continually recommended an
increase in the price of gold. Since the
dollar is the only currency tied directly
to gold this would, in effect, have meant
the devaluation of the dollar.
Once the franc had been devalued,
France’s influence in world monetary
affairs would have been seriously
weakened. Now, by trying to destroy the
system itself at a time when the United
States is, in effect, without a President,
he might get what he wants.
The Finance Ministers of the other
major trading nations can now be
expected to try to frustrate the General.
It seems probable that they will
reassemble in Bonn to try to thrash out
a new package and possibly make one
final effort to get West Germany to
revalue the mark. This would amount
to giving in to the General. But it
would, at least, go a long way to saving
the world monetary system.
The great danger that faces all
countries is that a wave of protec-
tionism will now sweep the world in the
same way as it did in the 19305. This
could mean a fall in world trade and
consequent falling living standards.
Particularly hard hit would be the
developing nations which depend on the
markets of the industrialised countries
to sell their raw materials. If these
markets dwindle, the poor of the world
are likely to get still poorer.
The General is now likely to face
an enormous domestic problem. The
Scrambling on
the Paris Bourse
before it was
closed last week
to stop the run on
the franc. In
Bonn, German
demonstrators ’
posters declared
revaluation of the
mark would betray
German workers,
and that France’s
currency crisis was
its own fault
flight of capital out of France is
certain to increase. If it cannot go
into marks, because of the new regula-
tion on foreign deposits in German
banks, it will go into gold.
This flight of capital will denude
the Bank of France of its precious
reserves and present the General with
a huge b'alance-of-payments deficit. In
the end he may find that, although he
has decided that the franc should not
be devalued, he may simply run out
of funds to make that decision stick.
To back it up the Bank of France will
have to support the market.
France has already lost reserves
totalling $3OOO million since June and
has a further $4300 million in the kitty.
This is a huge sum, but a big specu-
lative attack would not take long to
get through this. Then'France would
have no choice but to devalue the franc
whatever the General says.
De Gaulle’s refusal to devalue the
franc is also seen as a defiant and
desperate attempt to prevent the
balance of political power in Europe
from tipping away from France and
toward Western Germany as a result
of the money crisis.
But while the General’s decision has
created a new and critical situation,
with unpredictable consequences for
the European and world economies, it
seems unlikely to change the main
underlying conclusion drawn from the
course of the money crisis, namely that
the German political position in Europe
has been strengthened and that of
France weakened.
Whatever the outcome of the present
flight over the franc, the new balance
of economic power, of which the
present crisis is a reflection, is likely
to show itself in negotiations inside the
Common Market itself where the
Germans will now have greater bar-
gaining power to defend their interests
in economic matters still in dispute.
Another test of the political conse-
quences of the crisis will come when
the Western European Union holds its
next ministerial meeting in Luxem-
bourg, probably in January. .
The British and France’s five
Common Market partners will then
raise again the question of closer Euro-
pean co-operation in matters outside
the scope of the Treaty of Rome—
primarily foreign policy and defence,,
and possibly technology and monetary
affairs. The French have so far refused
to take part in these talks.
At last week’s NATO meeting
Britain and the Five agreed to further
talks about this co-operation outside
the Common Market framework and
the Italians were asked to prepare a


working paper for the Luxembourg
meeting.
At Luxembourg- a fresh effort will be
made to persuade the French to join
in. If they continue to hold aloof, the
prospects of creating a “European
voice” on foreign policy and defence
without France will depend on the
attitude of West Germany, which so far
has been hesitant.
If, as appears probable, the money
crisis has strengthened the influence of
Herr Franz Josef Strauss, the Finance
Minister, West German policy is un-
likely to move toward any wider
estrangement from France.
THE ANZAC BATTALION-I
WAITING FOR A POLICY
By HARVEY STOCKWIN
IN THE BROAD, as 1968 draws to
a close, it has been Australia not
Britain that has compounded the
uncertainties and insecurities created
by the British accelerated withdrawal.
On the one hand the British, having
announced the worst first, were then
able to recover their diplomatic posi-
tion . somewhat -—■ having given the
impression they were giving nothing,
their moves made subsequently at the
Five-Power conference seemed a
decided improvement. On the other
hand, Australia, having via External
Affairs Minister Hasluck got off to a
good start by saying that 1971 was a
date for the British, not for Australia,
then proceeded to talk and act in
such a way as to at least create the
impressions of a total Commonwealth
withdrawal from Malaysia—Singapore
being definitely on the cards —and that
1971 might be a watershed for every-
body.
For one thing, there has been all
the talk of “Fortress Australia,” for
which concept the all-too-short Holt
premiership had not been a' prepara-
tion. At the Five-Power conference it
was accepted that Australia and New
Zealand generally reserved their posi-
tion, but the subsequent stress by Aus-
tralia on neutrality in the Sabah claim
dispute heavily underlined that the
position was much more reserved than
anticipated—by either Malaysia or the
Philippines. (In Manila it is still blithely
assumed that Australia will side with
Kuala Lumpur, while in Kuala Lumpur
there is much less certainty.)
Small but significant though their
work may be, the Five-Power military
advisory groups set up to work on
future arrangements on Army, Naval,
and Air matters failed to meet after
the Five-Power conference, until the
Army one met early in November
due to Manila-Australia procrastination.
Thus, while Mr. Fairhall, in last
week’s Defence debate, stressed that
“we have been far from inactive,”
the stress should be on the inactive,
and his assumption of being “in the
closest harmony ever” with the other
Four Powers is tenable only if the
emergency and confrontations were
privately accompanied by a degree
of discord which has never been so
far revealed.
Thus, too, the announcement in the
No Confidence debate that Australia
would be staying until 1971 was very
much an anti-climax, since neither the
Malaysians nor Singaporeans had
assumed that Australia would further
accelerate the accelerated withdrawal.
“What we need is an assurance that they
will stay after 1971,” said Malaysian
Deputy Prime Minister Turi Razak, wel-
coming Prime Minister Gorton’s dis-
closure. “We will do our best to facili-
tate their stay here.”
The steady erosion of Australia’s
image and the regard -in which it is
held might have been halted if, like
Mr. Holyoake in the New Zealand
Parliament, it had been possible for
Mr. Gorton especially in view of the
sentiments and inclinations widely
attributed to him to “confirm that
our studies demonstrate that in terms
of its own interests as well as the
interests of general peace, Australia
should continue to help promote
stability and security not only in
Malaysia and Singapore but right
across the South-East Asian area . . .”
Even the decision to stay has yet to
be made “with finality,” and is only
“in principle.” As the Five-Power con-
ference foreshadowed, the closing of the
Terendak Commonwealth Brigade
camp next year appears a certainty,
though probably the Malaysians will be
avoiding its conversion to civilian usage
just in case British Opposition Leader
Mr. Heath gets a chance to demonstrate
he means what he says. The proposed
Anzac Battalion will presumably be
moved to the barracks the British will
be vacating in Penang.
Malaysian defence sources indicate
that they will be fulfilling their obliga-
tions agreed to at the Five-Power con-
ference to man the radar network
essential for the effective operation of
the Butterworth base on Penang. It is
hoped that post-1971 commitments will
be entered into at the next Five-Power
conference scheduled to be held in
Singapore in the first half of next year.
What worries the Malaysians is the
thought that if after all the delay a total
withdrawal results, they will be suddenly
faced with grave problems of defence
expenditure and planning. To mention
only one possibility, offers of Russian
arms aid might, at that point, take on
new attractiveness.
For the time being, however, as evi-
denced by last week’s reactions, the
Malaysians and Singaporeans are
resigned to waiting for an end to Aus-
tralian procrastinations. But, as the
Kuala Lumpur “Malay Mail” pointed
out on November 22: “If each of the
five Commonwealth Powers refuses to
show its hand until someone else takes
the initiative, a security system for
South-East Asia will be a long time in
the making.”
The real Australian failure has not
been the failure to decide so much as
the failure to take any initiatives and
thereby increase its standing and pres-
tige. Instead, one has to await more
votes of no confidence in the hope that
out of them a policy will emerge.
THE ANZAC BATTALION —II
A BRUSHFIRE FORCE
By ANTHONY HAAS
THE MAIN PRACTICAL point
requiring study by New Zealand, follow-
ing her decision to maintain in Malaysia
and Singapore forces at about the pres-
ent level until the end of 1971, said
Prime Minister Holyoake in Parliament,
is the size and location of the ground
forces.
Mr. Holyoake said: “In principle it
makes sound sense to join with Aus-
tralia in forming an Anzac battalion,
but its exact location and detailed com-
position are currently being examined.
In terms of our own interests as well
as the interests of general peace, we
should continue to promote stability
and security not only in Malaysia and
Singapore but right across the South-
East Asia area, and to make our con-
tribution in co-operation with other
countries.”
The Government’s current assumption
appears to be that it is improbable
the U.S. will change its fundamental
policy in Asia, and that any role played
by New Zealand does not necessarily
mean staying in Malaysia and Singa-
pore, with whom New Zealand has no
specific commitment.
Labor Opposition Leader Kirk con-
ceded that the responsibility for delay
did not rest on the New Zealand
Government and “welcomed the
decision to maintain a roughly similar
contribution to that we have been
making over the years in Malaysia up
to the end of 1971.” Mr. Kirk, smart-
ing under pressure from anti-Vietnam
War Labor groups, asserted that as a
Commonwealth country New Zealand
had a duty to Malaysia and Singapore
transcending any commitments in other
areas of South-East Asia.
Some observers jumped to the con-
clusion that this meant that Mr. Kirk,
who may become Prime Minister next
year, was rejecting a “Fortress New
Zealand” as alleged to be urged by
young Labor Members. In fact, those
who will direct Labor’s defence policies
think that after 1971, in the absence of
a major foreign nation in the area, it
would seem that a “Fortress Australia”'
concept would be the only viable alter-
native. Their view is that forward
defence is not on, as neither Australia
nor New Zealand have the necessary
population or depth in economy. But
they feel that this need not limit the
Anzac capacity to meet a brushfire
conflict, because their small forces could
be highly mobile.
They think that troops could be
kept in readiness in New Zealand for
limited roles, such as meeting brushfire


aggression from outside a country (but
excluding internal or major inter-
national conflicts), or contributing to
UN peacekeeping forces.
Labor leadership is emphatic that
New Zealand forces should not be used
to prop up governments that do not
fulfil a proper social and economic
role. They believe their views will both
convince Malaysia and Singapore that
Labor is concerned about their well-
being and accommodate pressures
within their own Party.
NATO
TOOTHLESS DOG BARKING
NONE OF THE dire warnings of the
Ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation, uttered before their
meeting at Brussels, while they were
at Brussels or even after, has made
the Russians pause in their steady
digestion of Mr. Dubcek’s Czecho-
slovakia. Big threats in the mouths of
small men are merely laughable. The
Russians, who know their NATO
Ministers very well, may actually be
feeling freer to throw their weight
around in central and eastern Europe
than they were before NATO congre-
gated.
Two days after the Brussels talks
had broken up, the Soviet Foreign
Minister, Mr. Gromyko, said in Buda-
pest last week that the NATO powers
should adopt a “more realistic
approach.” Of course he meant that
NATO should simply accept what has
happened in Czechoslovakia and do
nothing about it. But what else did he
have in mind?
The Russians have tipped the tactical
balance in central Europe their way
and it is quite possible that in estab-
lishing the concept of a “Soviet com-
monwealth” they may resort to militai'y
intervention elsewhere in Rumania,
Albania, or Yugoslavia. The NATO.
A Russian missile crew on a training exercise outside Moscow recently
A $150,000
camera which
photographs
objects the
size of a
basketball
50,000 miles
distant, and
operated by
Canadian Air
Defence in
Alberta, is
said to have
photographed
a new Soviet
space bomb,
unarmed, in
orbit 100
miles above
earth
powers not only have to look to the
defences of their own territories; they
also have to try to look as if they
could deter the Russians from doing
another Czechoslovakia.
It is a tall order for NATO. The
communique issued after the Brussels
meeting made it clear that some long-
overdue measures are being taken.
Italy emerges as the front-runner in
offering to add seven percent to its
defence budget in the hope, no doubt,
of putting right some old failings in
equipment and training. Germany is
not far ( behind, with four percent
extra on its defence spending. It will
be buying Phantoms from the United
States and it will add to its artillery.
But much of the extra money will go
on the recruitment of NCOs and
junior officers in order to bring the
32 German brigades up to full strength.
The British are not spending any new
money, but they have promised to put
a third squadron of Harriers in Ger-
many and a carrier in the Mediter-
ranean and to earmark another
infantry battalion for NATO. The
Americans are speeding up the switch-
over to Phantoms in Europe, improv-
ing their electronic warning devices,
providing bombproof shelters for their
aircraft (as the Russians have done
already in East Germany), and putting
forces in the United States on more
immediate call.
It is not a bad list so far as it goes.
But it amounts to no more than a
minimal response to the shift that has
occurred in the tactical balance in
central Europe. The real deterrent is
still the American willingness to release
tactical nuclear weapons for use on
the battlefield either for real or in a
“demonstration” role. The line in
central Europe is being held very
much as it was before. The anxieties
that beset SHAPE’s military planners
when they tot up Russia’s superiority
in men, tanks, and planes are much
as they were.
Where anxiety is growing is the
Mediterranean. There, the Russian fleet
of between 40 and 50 ships lacks
immediate air cover, but it has broken
the monopoly of power once enjoyed
by the American Sixth Fleet. The
growing number of Soviet technicians
in Algeria could mean that before long
Mers-el-Kebir will be providing in
the western basin the same kind of
facilities for the Russians that they
already have in Egyptian and Syrian
ports. Renewed attention, says the
NATO communique, will be directed
“to the provision of reinforcements for
the flanks and the strengthening of
local forces there.” The French Navy,
apparently, is willing to co-operate.
The British are prepared to keep either
a carrier or a commando ship on
station in the Mediterranean for much
of the year. But, as yet, there is still
no sign of a multi-national standing
squadron in the Mediterranean. And
when it comes to ground forces, where
are the reinforcements to be conjured
up from?
From the North Cape to the Bos-
phorus, NATO’s forces are stretched
to the limit, even to do the job of
defending their own countries. There
is nothing left over to cover further
commitments. Yet this is just what


they may be called upon to do. Or
so the communique implies when it
says that “any Soviet intervention
directly or indirectly affecting the
situation in Europe or in the Mediter-
ranean would create an international
crisis with grave consequences.”
And what does that mean to any-
one? It is dangerous because it is
ambiguous; and it is unconvincing
because the forces it would require
quite plainly do not exist. If NATO’s
pronouncements are anything more than
the barking of a toothless dog, then
each and all of the NATO countries
will have to define how far the new
doctrine extends and what they mean
to do to make it effective. There was
plenty of talk at Brussels about the
so-called “grey areas.” They certainly
include Yugoslavia, Austria, and Finland.
But do they include Rumania —or
Albania, whose occupation would be a
direct threat to the Yugoslavs as well
as to the NATO Mediterranean forces?
It may be thought sensible to avoid
Dean Acheson’s mistake in 1950 of
issuing a precise list of commitments;
his omission of South Korea is said to
have led the North Koreans to have a
crack at it. But NATO seems now to
be planning in a complete fog.
And where are the teeth to make
this new policy credible to the Russians?
They can hardly be military ones.
There is, it is true, the ace mobile
force, with three battalions trained and
equipped for the northern flank and
another three for the southern one.
Conceivably, Britain might offer its
own strategically mobile third division
as a reinforcement (but only at the
expense of being unable to help out in
central Europe for instance, in
Schleswig-Holstein). What other
country, apart from the United States,
would be prepared and be able to shift
large bodies of its troops away either
from the central front or from home
defence? In Europe, NATO simply
does not possess sufficiently strong
mobile reserves to respond to any
further aggression by Russia other than
to send token forces to member States
like Norway, Greece, and Turkey. If
more direct aid ever had to be offered
to a country like Yugoslavia, the Euro-
pean members of NATO would have to
wait on Washington to make the move
that matters.
NATO is right to want to stop Russia
from even contemplating intervention
in the parts of Europe that belong to
neither NATO nor to the Warsaw pact.
But it has only two real choices if it
wants to make its policy a reality.
Either it can go to the pain and cost
of adding to its conventional military
strength; or it must answer local military
aggression with wide-ranging diplo-
matic and economic sanctions. Is the
second what the NATO. Ministers meant
by “grave consequences”? Or did they
mean something even emptier than
that? In urging them to be more real-
istic, Mr. Gromyko was doing them a
major favor.
JAPAN
A NUCLEAR FUSE
THE FLAMES of an exploding 852
as it was taking off from Kadena Air
Base on Okinawa on November 19
only served to further light up what is
presently the main irredentist issue in
North-East Asia. With unfortunate
though superb timing, the bomber
crashed just after the Ryukyu Islanders
had elected Chobyo Yara as their first
popularly elected chief executive since
World War 11. Yara had both Com-
munist and Socialist support in his
demand for the immediate reversion of
the Ryukyus to Japan. In winning, he
defeated a candidate backed by the
Liberal Democratic Party, but the
Liberals won 18 of the seats in the
legislature.
The United States took over the
administration of the Ryukyus after
World War II and made Okinawa a key
base in their West Pacific defence
system. Since the time of President
Eisenhower it has not been contested
that residual sovereignty over the
islands belongs to Japan. While Presi-
dent Johnson talked to Prime Minister
Sato last year about Japan obtaining
full sovereignty one day. no timetable
Although not nuclear armed, the crash
in Okinawa of a B52 bomber (above)
and widespread damage to property
(below) has reinforced demands for the
U.S. to get out of its strategic nuclear
bases in the Ryukyu Islands
for reversion has ever been fixed.
Understandably, since the question
presents difficulties for both govern-
ments.
For the Americans it might be
thought a solution to return the islands
to Japanese control while they retain
free use of the bases. But Okinawa is
not like the bases in Japan, since the
Americans in Okinawa are free to
station nuclear bombs and nuclear
bombers there, while in Japan they are
not.
While for any government in Japan
there is the need to undercut the Com-
munist and Socialist clamorings for
immediate reversion, the only accept-
able way would still present problems
if the U.S. retained its nuclear capacity
on Okinawa. For the Communists and
Socialists there are no problems, since
they are opposed to nuclear weapons,
the bases, and the American alliance
as they are to the continued control of
the Ryukyus by the Americans.
Put another way, if President Nixon
pressures the Japanese Government to
take reversion with the nuclear bases
—and the Japanese Government feels
sufficiently pressured to accept this
would require amendment to the U.S.-
Japan Mutual Security Treaty. The
Japanese Leftists would then have a
specific target for agitation, when at
present they have only the vague one
of the treaty becoming theoretically sub-
ject to abrogation or review in 1970.
The issue is therefore as vexed as it
is complex and Mr. Yara’s election
represents an additional complication.
The Bulletin’s INTERNATIONAL
Section is compiled from reports from
its own correspondents and from The
Observer Foreign News Service and
The Economist News Service.


THE WEEK IN AMERICA
TRANSPLANT CHAUVINISM
THE INCREASING TEMPO of heart-
transplant operations indicates that a
race for national prestige is under way,
every bit as keen as the effort to land
the first man on the moon.
South Africa, the pioneer country,
holds the record for the longest sur-
viving patient, Philip Blaiberg. But
American surgeons are now in the fore-
President Johnson inspects a left ventri-
cal bypass device, invented by famed
heart surgeon Dr. Michael DeBakey (r.)
at a National Heart Institute ceremony
front of world experimenters in apply-
ing the radical approach to cardiac
therapy. And Russian surgeons, despite
Moscow’s initial scepticism and hostility
to the operation, have recently begun
heart transplantation.
One leading American pioneer, Dr.
Norman Shumway, of Stanford Univer-
sity, is impatient with those who put
national prestige ahead of the effort
still needed before heart transplants can
be considered standard therapeutic
procedure similar to heart - valve
replacement. Dr. Shumway cites the
case of one European medical team
that performed one successful heart
transplant, then was content to rest on
that performance. He believes far more
might have been learned from the past
12 months’ experience in heart trans-
plantation if medical and scientific
considerations had always been fore-
most, rather than nationalistic, goals.
Dr. Shumway has performed eight
heart transplants this year and is
optimistic about the future. He esti-
mates that about half of the approxi-
mately 80 patients who have received a
new heart still survive. Some of these
have been able to leave the hospital
and resume near-normal lives under
medical supervision. However, he is
dissatisfied with the failure to cope
with the rejection phenomenon that is
the major cause of transplant failure.
Surgeons lack satisfactory techniques
for assuring, before surgery, that the
tissues of donor and recipient are
sufficiently compatible to minimise the
rejection possibility. More complete
understanding of the rejection
phenomenon is needed, as well as more
effective therapeutic techniques for
combating it. Little progress has been
made in this area, Dr. Shumway
complains.
A competition among medical labora-
tories to find better anti-rejection drugs
would be a useful international race,
he contends. Gains in this field would
benefit not only recipients of trans-
planted hearts but also those who
receive a liver, kidney, or other organ.
Dr. Shumway feels that the final break-
ing of the immunological barrier would
be a historic milestone in medicine,
comparable to the introduction of anti-
biotics to combat infection and of
anaesthetics to prevent pain.
Experiences of the past year have
shown that surgeons have mastered
transplantation techniques, but that
post-operative success is still too much
a matter of chance.
FASHIONS IN STERILITY
MALE STERILISATION, utilising the
vasectomy method, has become sud-
denly popular in the U.S., where an
estimated 45,000 men are undergoing the
operation annually. Vasectomy consists
of cutting and tying off the vasa defer-
entia or seminiferous tubules that carry
sperm frc,m the testicles to the ejacu-
latory tract. This is a minor procedure
which can be done in a doctor’s surgery
under local anaesthetic, although some
surgeons prefer to use general anaes-
thesia, requiring a nurse and hospital.
A recent report disclosed that most
vasectomies are being performed in
California among men holding uni-
versity degrees. Among disadvantages
of this method of sterilisation is that
there is no guarantee of reversibility
in case of remarriage. However, Dr.
Pralhad Das Jhaver, an Indian doing
research at the University of North
Carolina, has developed a method he
calls Siss—for “single incision, single
stitch.” Instead of cutting out a piece
of each vas deferens, he simply severs
them and inserts a short length of
plastic tube containing a plastic plug.
Restoration of fertility is accomplished
by pulling the plug out of the plastic
insert, said to be successful in 98 per-
cent of cases.
LAW v. LAWMAKERS
THE POSSIBILITY CF “a bruising
confrontation” between the judicial and
the legislative branches of U.S. Govern-
ment has been raised by the Supreme
Court’s decision to consider the con-
stitutionality of the barring of Negro
Representative Adam Clayton Powell
from his seat in Congress.
The House of Representatives has
insisted that the courts had no jurisdic-
tion over its internal affairs and some
Congressmen have stated they would
ignore any judicial order in the con-
troversial Powell case. Both the Federal
District Court and the U.S. Court of
Appeals had agreed that the courts
should not intervene. But last week
the Supreme Court surprised the
nation’s capital by agreeing to hear the
Negro Congressman’s appeal, based on
the theory that the House lacked the
constitutional right to exclude a
properly elected Representative so long
as he met the qualifications of age,
citizenship, and residency specified by
Ousted Negro Congressman Adam Clay-
ton Powell is still making plenty of noise
the constitution. Powell also raised the
issue of racial discrimination, contend-
ing his absence from Congress
deprived his black constituents in
Harlem of proper representation. The
House of Representatives voted in
March, 1967, to exclude Representative
Powell from his seat for “gross mis-
conduct” stemming from his refusal to
pay a defamatory judgment obtained
against him by an irate woman con-
stituent.
Powell hailed the Supreme Court
action last week as “a monumental
moment in American history.” His case
will go before the Supreme Court in
February and is expected to be decided
in May.
CONTRACEPTIVE WATER?
WHILE AN OFFICIAL ol the U.S.
Foreign Aid Program has come out
against the deep pessimism of British
statesman-author C. P. Snow, who told
an American audience the previous
week he was “nearer to despair this
year than ever in my life” over the
world’s increasing population and
shrinking food supplies, an eminent
anthropologist has underscored Lord
Snow’s forebodings.
Dr. C. Scott Littleton, of Los Angeles,
maintained that over-population


-m
nt
4
NO FIXED TERM
No waiting for declaration of
a dividend. The Society pays
6% p.a. on No Fixed Term
with no deductions.
Interest is paid twice yearly.
St. George & Cronulla Per-
manent Building Society Ltd.
backs your investment with
$47 million in assets. Make
your savings grow 6% p.a.
net. Start an investment today.
T BUILDING
fund
P^MAwnro
r P *OOOO PCI r«lS's
•sauS
Funds guaranteed for withdrawal
up to $lO,OOO per investor.
The progressive building society.
ST. GEORGE &
GRONULLA
PERMANENT
BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville. Phone 579 1041, 57 0201.
82 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Phone 28 2801.
Bankstown: Restwell & Raymond Streets.
Phone 709 2466
Bondi Junction: 450 Oxford Street.
Phone 38 3196
Chatswood: 39 Spring Street.
Phone 41 3570
Miranda: 551 The Kingsway.
Phone 524 6466
Parramatta: 167 Macquarie Street.
Phone 635 4574
MAIL TODAY to your nearest office
Please send free, comprehensive
literature to:
Name:
Address:
P/CODE
8Y209
Framed by
two
hand-carved
figures from
Micronesia,
anthropologist
C. Scott
Littleton ...
he says over-
population
dooms the
world
threatens the very existence of mankind
and the only solution may be to inject
birth-control drugs into the world’s
water supply. He said 75 percent of
the people in the world are already
either starving or suffering from malnu-
trition, and by the year 2168 the earth’s
population will mushroom to a possible
50 billion. “Even if we irrigated the
Sahara, redistributed our wheat, har-
vested algae and plankton from the
oceans, it would not be enough,” Dr.
Littleton said.
However, William Gaud, head of the
U.S. Foreign Aid Program, while
admitting the U.S. could do more in
the area of foreign aid, said that the
recent record of many nations in agri-
culture production was “decidedly
encouraging.”
Gaud pointed out that India’s recent
grain harvest had topped its earlier
record by more than one-third, and
the country expected to be self-sufficient
in wheat early in the 1970s.
Pakistan’s May-June wheat crop was
up 50 percent, and the country might
be self-sufficient in food grains by the
end of 1969.
The Philippines have ended their
half-century of dependency on rice
imports, and with the help of new
“miracle” rice strains plight soon
become an important exporter.
Gaud contended that the population
explosion was a more pressing problem
than food shortage. He said progress
in population limitation was slowest in
such critical areas as Latin America,
where the annual population growth is
3 percent, fastest in the world. He
said the U.S. was now supplying
family-planning assistance to 25 nations,
including contraceptives to India.
A YEAR IN SPACE
SOVIET STUDIES of dogs orbited in
space indicated that space-travelling
humans would be vulnerable to disease
on return to earth through loss of much
immunity. Dr. N. N. Gurovsky told a
recent international conference in
Geneva that the 22-day orbital flight
of two dogs in 1966 had aroused fore-
bodings about the effect year-long
flights might have on the health of
astronauts. Flights of this length would
be needed for round trips to Mars or
Venus.
The dogs showed a pronounced loss
of calcium in the blood and bones, a
condition which would make an astro-
naut prone to break an arm or leg.
Both dogs developed liver trouble and
troubles with their intestinal tracts,
including edemes, or collections of
water, in the smooth muscles. Lengthy
space flight might cause the same effects
in humans, the Soviet scientist noted.
However, the two Russian dogs were
described as being now in perfect health
at the Moscow Space. Arena, after
having had normal litters.
Another Soviet scientist stated that
the fundamental problem invblved in
lengthy space flights was the necessity
of remaining in a confined space without
proper use of the muscles. He added
that caution should be exercised in
using drugs, such as the histamine dos-
ages taken by three American astronauts
in the recent Apollo Seven flight, since
such drugs had different effects in space
than on earth.
NO GRACIOUS LIVING
FAR FROM BEING an “affluent
society,” the United States produced
incomes “grossly inadequate for the
overwhelming majority, both black and
white,” according to a study by the
Teamsters’ Union.
The working poor, “the forgotten
people,” could keep themselves but one
step above welfare standards only by
dint of hard work and a second or even
third income in the family.
Based on 1967 data, the union survey
disclosed that 38 percent of non-white
families and 16 percent of white
families had incomes of less than $4000
annually, which is the accepted poverty
yardstick.
“The overwhelming majority of
white American families cannot be
classified as affluent by any reasonable
standard,” the report noted. “Except
for a few, the more accurate designa-
tion would be hard-working, rather
than affluent — and certainly not
gracious.”
The report also showed that of 11
million households with an income
above $12,000 a year, 75 percent
required two wage-earners.


THE U.S. DEMOCRATS
A Party due for renewal?
THE END of the “old politics” is
announced regularly, but, like the day
of judgment, it seems to go on being
put off. This year it has been the
turn of the Democratic Party to fall
prey to self-examination, a natural
result of the trouble it found itself in.
A party in trouble looks for a new
leader; it broods upon what went wrong
and gropes for new attitudes that might
restore it to glamor and prosperity.
While these processes were raging
through the Democratic Party system
in the first half of this year, there was
no lack of political theorists to explain
that the whole organism had become
superannuated and that nothing short
of a total renewal would do. But in
Mr. Hubert Humphrey it chose a
leader whom it knew and felt at home
with, the man most likely to rally its
old sources of strength by addressing
himself in the accustomed manner to
the groups which traditionally make up
the flesh and bone of the Party in the
localities where political life is lived
and votes are got.
Had Mr. Humphrey won, the old
politics would, for practical purposes,
have been vindicated, the Party would
have settled down to a further term
in national office, and the questioning
would have ended in a sigh of relief.
Since he was beaten, renewal remains
an active theme. As the argument goes,
the dominance of the Democratic
Party in American politics over the
past 35 years was the work of Franklin
Roosevelt, who put together a coalition
broad enough in ordinary circum-
stances to keep the executive power in
Washington out of Republican hands.
Mr. Arthur Schlesinger has described
how the Roosevelt coalition of the
trade unions, city political machines,
European ethnic groups, racial minori-
ties, farm organisations, intellectuals,
and so on is breaking up and no longer
offers a sufficient power base for a
national party. Last spring saw the
existing order in the Democratic Party
challenged by two very different poli-
ticians, each moved to the attack by
revulsion against President Johnson’s
Vietnamese policy, but each, naturally,
urging something new in broader
terms.
Senator Eugene McCarthy wanted
the exercise of Presidential power con-
fined within narrower limits. He was
also inclined to substitute a some-
what different basis of popular appeal
for the traditional one inherited from
Roosevelt: he seemed to aim at a
coalition of educated people and, in
doing so, he performed the great, if
temporary, service of involving in
political life young people and intel-
lectuals who had become estranged
from it. The struggle over, Senator
McCarthy is left as an enigmatic figure.
When he made his tardy declaration
of support for Mr. Humphrey in
October, he announced that he would
not be “a candidate of my Party” for
the Senate in 1970 (when his elective
term runs out), nor would he “seek”
the Democratic nomination for the
Presidency in 1972. This is a dignified
but somewhat inscrutable position.
Senator McCarthy has preserved his
purity, but nobody knows whether he
has some independent political effort
in mind, or whether he intends to con-
tinue an active political career at all.
His year of campaigning has left him
with prestige, admirers, enemies, and
no certain source of political power.
That the Party would turn to him for
leadership in future looks, after all that
has happened, unlikely.
Senator Robert Kennedy was even
more explicit than Mr. McCarthy in
promising new directions, a break with
ft „ ° J ,
the past, and a fresh land of appeal to
the national energies. Yet it was never
clear that he wanted a new kind of
Democratic Party or possessed a new
political concept. He wanted to restore
the function of the Presidency as
Kennedy, 36, with time
on his side
Humphrey and.
(r.) Muskie beaten,
not slaughtered
protector of the poor and dispossessed
groups, including the Negroes and the
other racial minorities; he wanted a
new national effort at social improve-
ment and, of course, an end to the war;
and he wanted different men in charge
who would run the Party and Govern-
ment better. This was bringing the old
politics up to date; it did not amount
to a “new politics.” As is obvious, the
energetic men who worked for him,
many of whom had worked for his
brother John, are not going to give up
without a struggle. The surviving brother,
Senator Edward Kennedy, is 36. Doubt-
less he will try for re-election in Massa-
chusetts in 19/0.
Even before that, he will be feeling
the pressure from friends and followers
to run for the Presidential nomination
in 1972. The argument will be that the
young people need leadership, and, if
they do not get it from him soon, they
will look elsewhere. Senator Kennedy is
an attractive, serious, hard-working man,
and the power of his name is not likely
to fade quickly. Whether he ought to be
a Presidential candidate as early as
1972 is arguable. There may be others
with more of a claim. Old wounds
could easily be reopened. He is young
enough to wait and, perhaps, to benefit
from waiting: after all, in 1976 he will
still be only 44 years old.
Does the Party need a break with the
past? Vice-President Humphrey and
Senator Muskie were beaten, but they
were not slaughtered. At the miserable
start of his campaign, in early Septem-
ber, Mr. Humphrey was an enormous
distance behind Mr. Nixon, 12 percent
and more in the opinion polls. The trade
unions and other groups whom Demo-
cratic candidates rely on for support left
it very late to commence working
properly for him, and for a time they
were in the dark about what they could
hope to achieve. But in October they
got going, voters began to turn back
from Mr. George Wallace to the Demo-
cratic candidates, Party dissidents started
to close ranks, and the undecided to
make up their minds, while Mr. Nixon’s
support remained static, and his cam-
paign, with nothing left to be done or
said, radiated tedium. Mr. Humphrey
finished almost level, and in Congress
the Democrats emerged with majorities
in both Houses.
If the old Democratic coalition can
achieve this in a year of misfortune, it
must have some life in it, except in
one quarter, the South. Apart from
Texas, the South was totally lost, either
to Mr. George Wallace or to Mr. Nixon,
and it is not easy to see what the
Democrats can do to get it back without
opening more divisions in their ranks,
Still, there is territory to be won else-
where, territory which could have been
held last week with a shade of luck
or even, if the state organisations had
kept in better shape, without it.
Thus a case can be made for the
proposition that the Party can recover
f rom i ts defeat without needing to turn
itself upside down. Mr. Humphrey has
emerged from a fearful ordeal with
quite enough credit to make an
adequate transitional leader, under
whom the vestigial national organisa-
tion might be kept in better shape than
President Johnson ever kept it. Whether
Mr. Humphrey will make a Presidential
candidate in 1972, when he will be
61, is more doubtful: yet it cannot
be ruled out. Not to hold a national


office will be a handicap; he may seek
Senator McCarthy’s seat in the Senate
in two years’ time.
Unlike Mr. Humphrey, Mr. Muskie
is still a Senator and, thus, does not
lack a pulpit. The campaign has made
him a national figure and a likely can-
didate for the Presidency. Senator
George McGovern, who did well in
his brief campaign for the Presidential
nomination and held his North Dakota
seat, is another possible candidate.
Somewhere, also, one supposes, is a
Mr. X who may make his appearance
between now and 1972. With no
Democratic President in office, the
next contest for the leadership may be
more orthodox than the last.
Mr. Nixon’s hair’s-breadth win and
the retention of Democratic majorities
in both Houses of Congress speak for
continuity. Still, the Democratic Party
has been shaken up and the awareness
of danger will stay. It does not know
whether Mr. George Wallace, as a
claimant to national political power, is
now alive or dead, but it does know
that the persisting racial tension and
social turbulence make it vulnerable to
any interloper who sets up, as he did,
as protector of the white common man.
One reaction' to this danger might be
to push the Democrats to the left, but
that would suit Mr. Nixon well. The
opportunity to occupy the centre of
American politics for his Party would
be one that he would be unlikely to
miss. Already, by his meeting with
President Johnson soon after his victory,
he has removed the Vietnam question
from Party politics as far as it is in
the power of man to do. But it can
flare up in his face if things go badly
next year in the conduct either of the
negotiations or, if it continues, of the
war.
The festering cities present the other
big threat to political continuity. If
what has happened in New York, where
the bright image of the young Republi-
can Mayor Lindsay is shattering under
racial and political attacks, were to
happen in a few other big cities, the
national Parties might be driven farther
apart and the demand for a new
politics would revive. Short of such a
disaster, the Republican Administration
and the Democratic Congress will
incline to seek common ground.
The Democratic majorities will give
Mr. Nixon an excuse to bury some
rash conservative campaign promises.
Already the firm resolve to expand
America’s strategic armaments has been
muted into the promise of a painstaking
review of defence needs. Another cam-
paign promise, to repeal the income-
tax surcharge in June, has declined into
an earnest hope. For their part, the
Democrats in Congress will want to
protect their achievements and, in some
directions, to build upon them. Senator
Mike Mansfield may well turn out to
be a strong leader of the Democratic
majority now that the shadow of Presi-
dent Johnson is lifted from him.
President Nixon will need the help
of these Democrats to get appointments
approved, Bills passed, and funds voted,
and they will need him to get the
things done that they want done. Thus
neither a wholesale undoing of the
work of the Johnson Administration,
nor a blanket obstruction of the policies
of the Nixon Administration, would
seem to be a serious possibility. There
will be give-and-take; as Mr. Nixon
said recently, “Both Parties have to
perform willy-nilly.” How far this goes
may depend on events outside the con-
trol of Republicans or Democrats. But
a return to a state of relative quiet, if
it can be achieved, will suit the interests
of both Parties for a time.
BRAZIL
From bad to a lot worse
“RUIM MESMO” (really bad) is how
disconsolate Brazilians describe the situa-
tion in the country that this month put
cut flags for the visit of Queen Eliza-
beth and Prince Philip. Brazil tradi-
tionally prides itself on its powers of
conciliation; the new note of violence
is all the more shocking. Terrorist bombs
in Sao Paulo, Rio, and Belo Horizonte
are bad enough. Now there are the
frequent battles between police and
demonstrating students. Last month yet
another student was shot dead in Rio;
the following day two onlookers fell to
stray bullets from trigger-happy military
police. On the day the victims were
buried, President Costa e Silva, avuncu-
lar as ever, inaugurated a “commission
for the defence of the rights of the
human person” to mark the 20th anni-
versary of the universal declaration of
the rights of man.
Terrorism, a continuing series of
mysterious bank robberies in Sao Paulo,
intermittent student protests and hooli-
ganism, followed by police repression
all this is thought to be very “un-
Brazilian.” But it is manifestly part of
the long-drawn-out crisis that has been
shaking Brazil for the past ten years. In
closer focus, the present troubles put the
armed services on the spot. They seized
power, and it is up to them to explain
and resolve the crisis. Despite the con-
stitutional framework, they are the
ultimate authority.
Ordinary citizens are shocked to see
students beaten, kicked, and shot at.
Middle-class mothers have formed a
union fo protect their rebellious sons and
daughters from police brutality. But no
one is pleased, either, at the constant
disruption of city life and urban trans-
port by rioting students. The “Jornal do
Brasil” comments that “the right to dis-
order is not included in the rights of the
human person.”
Irritation could become the catalyst
of a change which most people think
would be for the worse. It coincides
with one of those esoteric crises
peculiar to the rarefied air of Brasilia.
The current star of the games politi-
cians play under Niemeyer’s dome is an
Opposition Deputy, Sr. Marcio Moreira
Alves. He stands accused by the
Minister of Justice, Sr. Gama e Silva,
of insulting the honor of the armed
forces in a recent speech in the
chamber. The Federal Supreme Tri-
bunal is examining a request by the
Government to waive Sr. Alves’ par-
liamentary immunity, and suspend his
political rights, if possible, for the
classic ten years. I
The Opposition sees this punitive
move against the Deputy as an
attempt by the military Right Wing to
coerce the President into reverting to
an earlier phase of “revolutionary”
authoritarianism, perhaps by proclaim-
ing the usual state of emergency or
reviving the dictatorial “institutional
acts.” There has again been talk of
conspiracies to dislodge President Costa
e Silva and replace him by a more
unequivocally Right-wing figure. The
conspiracies so far boil down to rumors
of meetings of disaffected military men
in Copacabana apartments, and reports
that young officers at the Vila Militar,
the big military establishment outside
Rio, are circulating a manifesto against
the Government’s economic policy and
protesting against the impunity with
which the armed forces are nowadays
criticised, lampooned, and “insulted.”
But President Costa e Silva has,
again, condemned “radicalisation,”
whether Right-wing or Left-wing, and
insisted that his Government will stick
to constitutional forms. Verbally, at any
rate, the President is steering a middle
course between Right-wing zealots and
those who want a larger dose of
democracy than is considered safe for
the “revolution.”
Most people believe that the current
wave of terrorism comes mainly from
the Right. The sinister antics in Sao
Paulo and Recife of masked men call-
ing themselves the “commando of
Communist catchers” seems to con-
firm this. But there is also a suspicion
that the now almost routine bank rob-
beries , may, at least, at the beginning,
have been attempts by groups of Cuban-
or “Chinese”-style urban guerillas to
finance their activities. The student pro-
test movement is undoubtedly pene-
trated by revolutionary activists with
Cuban connections. But the issue is
blurred by the undeniable fact that the
students have a true grouse against the
inadequacy of the educational system
and the singular lack of tact with
which they are treated by the Ministry
of Education. Attempted suppression of
authentic students’ political organisa-
tions, and a pottering, unconvincing
approach to the problems of educational
reform, have proved the ideal formula
for raising the dust.


The single life
By APRIL HERSEY
WHERE ARE all the bachelor uncles
and spinster aunts who once made
Christmas celebrations and family crises
so simple for the parents of large
families? They are still with us,
despite the emphasis on marriage these
days, although in far fewer numbers
than in previous generations.
Statistically they are classed as over
the age of 15, unmarried. The per-
centage in the population can fluctuate
for many reasons, such as the admission
of large numbers of single male
migrants, or be affected by the state
of the economy. However, the general
picture has been decline from the hey-
day of the aunt and uncle, the Victorian
age. In 1891 about 29 percent of the
Australian population over the age of
15 was unmarried; in 1911 the figure
was nearly 31 percent. In the 1960 s
the percentage has been around 17
or 18.
Today there is a far greater element
of choice for most people. There are
more and better-paid jobs for women,
and, in the cities at least, a man, if
he wants to undertake single
domesticity, can find something better
than a room in a boarding-house.
But how, when all the emphasis in
advertising and communications
hammers away at the idea of young
love and the bliss of compatible
suburbia, can these people cling to the
single life? What special brand of
individualism permits them to sidestep
the traps that both sexes set so
cunningly?
Miss Betty Archdale, headmistress of
Abbotsleigh School, Wahroonga, on
Sydney’s North Shore, is a very happy
single woman. Completely surrounded
at most times by people, she feels
“miles happier and a lot better off than
many married women.”
She feels there is a pressure placed
upon young girls to get married, which
is one reason why so many marriages
crash. “Just because it is the thing to
do—they get swept into a pattern —
often quite wrong for them.”
Single blessedness has proved right
for Miss Archdale though she freely
admits there are disadvantages. “It is
difficult when one is asked out without
an escort. I’ve got to the stage now
when I breeze in quite happily, but
sometimes when it is a reception in
some unfamiliar place I find myself
praying I will immediately see some-
one . I know. Also husbands are
extremely useful for parking cars. They
let their wives off at the door and go
off for miles with the car. Well, I find
myself trudging back with the husbands.
All trivialities, of course.”
Another thing imperfect in the
position of the single woman at a large
school is the business of living alone
at a residence in the school grounds.
“A man has his family. If things have
gone wrong during the day he can go
home and let off steam to his wife
and she will give him sympathy and
understanding. I go home and mutter
to myself. There is also the burden
of playing the role of both members
of the husband-and-wife team at social
functions. I have to be the Head and
still manage the social side.”
Miss Archdale is inclined to pay
beforehand if she entertains anyone
outside the home to save wrestling for
the cheque. She shares with her
brother, Alexander, a house at Galston,
set in five acres of bushland, where
they both invite friends in a casual
way.
“I live alone and like it. I enjoy
reading, playing records. Mind you, I
won’t deny there are times when I am
lonely. But I don’t think this is because
I’m single. I think every human being
Miss Betty
Archdale ...
“miles
happier”
shares this burden. I don’t think I’ll
ever be as lonely as someone who has
been widowed. I see people after a
happy life absolutely shattered by
widowhood.
“Sometimes I get tired of depending
on myself. It would be nice to lean on
someone. I get fed up with making my
own decisions. I would have married
if I’d ever fallen in love really in
love but I didn’t. I would never
have married for the sake of marriage
or companionship.”
Miss Archdale feels that many
married women have little more than
the status of slaves, still doesn’t feel
that enough of them are trained to
earn a living and to escape from the
soul-destroying boredom of their
lonely homes. She is inclined to seek
solitude with some gratitude, regarding
it as a blessing.
She would like to have had children
but this is only a fleeting thought.
“I think the single w'oman loses out
here every woman feels the need
for children.” Her own nieces and
nephews are grown up and there are
now grand-nieces and nephews, though
Miss Archdale does not know them
well or keep in close touch with god-
children. “I remember the cheques at
Christmas.”
She thinks perhaps she works to
maintain friendships because they are
important to her, though she retains
old friends with little effort.
“It is selfish to lead your own life
undirected,” she said. “Probably there
is a certain amount of cowardice in not
having married. It takes courage to
commit yourself for life.”
Miss Archdale is a product of the
British boarding-school system and spent
her girlhood from seven to 18 away at
school. “It was fun. I was good at
games and we had the hols, to look
forward to.” Later she went with her
brother to McGill University, in Canada,
then back to London University where
she studied law and enjoyed hockey
and cricket. She was called to the Bar
and drawn patriotically to serve in the
WRENS at about the same time, and
finished her war years in Australia. She
became Principal of the Womens’
College at Sydney University for eleven
years and then was invited to Abbot-
sleigh. “Never been a teacher you know
was appallingly ignorant to start,
but I’ve been here eleven years now.”
“Funny thing, you know,” she said
finally, “People still look on the un-
married man differently from the
unmarried woman. The man is a
bachelor by choice. The woman has
been left on the shelf.”
Her own brother, Alexander, is a
bachelor not so much from choice as
from fate, which made him fall in love


with the theatre, a most demanding
mistress.
Now the guiding force of the Com-
munity Theatre at Killara, a few miles
from Miss Archdale’s shod, Alexander
Archdale was intended for other things.
“No one became an actor professionally
when I was a boy. It just wasn’t one
of the professions. It was the Services,
the Church, or the land. I was meant
for the land I believe certainly I
studied Forestry at McGill University in
Canada. But I always loved to act
from childhood on. Suddenly from
University acting I was precipita.ed into
the real thing. One Friday evening I was
invited to tour with Henry Ainsley, a
very gentlemanly actor of the old school.
By the following Monday or Tuesday I
was a professional actor.”
This was in 1927, and by 1933 he had
toured England, France, and Germany,
played in London and New York m
John Van Druten plays, starred with
Gertrude Lawrence, been offered Holly-
wood contracts, and generally estab-
lished himself well and truly as an
actor.
Suddenly he decided to get married.
He remembers Van Druten taking him
to lunch and begging him not to get
married, because it was too soon.
“But I did. I allowed my marriage
to affect decisions in the theatre. 1 tried
hard to be the suburban husband. And
gradually, imperceptibly, I disappeared
slowly from the theatrical scene. My
friends and directors began to think I
wasn’t interested. One agent even
thought I had left the stage. Suburbia
is a disaster for an actor.”
The war made a complete break in
Archdale’s life. As a Lieutenant-
Commander in the British Navy on
motor torpedo boats and destroyers, he
felt again the freedom he had given up.
His marriage did not survive the war.
“I miss them,” he said. “I missed
my boys growing up. But I was born
to the theatre and I had to go back
to it. Marriages don’t work, unless they
are very special, in this field. Some
people have that rare ability. I remem-
ber Celia Johnson’s husband had a
ladder to his bedroom so that he could
go in and out without getting involved
in her theatrical parties—but that was
one of the very rare marriages.”
He continued his acting career, drift-
ing to Australia from time to time,
where he even bought land in Western
Australia with the idea of settling
(since sold to keep the Community
Theatre afloat). In 1951, in London,
he believes he reached his moment of
decision. Lying in bed after a serious
heart attack he decided to break with
the theatre in England despite his
success there, and return to Australia
permanently to give his life a real
purpose. He planned to direct, start a
theatre if he could, give what experi-
ence he had gained in a lifetime where
it was most needed—-in a country just
developing its theatre.
“We must have challenge in our
lives. Who wants to lie down on a
South Sea island?”
Despite the occasional lapse when he ■
has proposed (“fortunately unsuccess-
fully”) to various ladies, Archdale has
kept to the single life. He gets irritated
with the personal domestic trivia of
attending to laundry and housework,
but has proved to be an excellent cook.
It is nothing for him to whip up paellas
or curries for up to 50 guests.
Like many actors who prefer to
remain single, he has been amused at
times to be tagged as a homosexual.
“My wife was warned by everyone.
But, fortunately, I had more of a repu-
tation for being a wolf.”
Surviving, like the Community
Theatre, on strict economy and over-
work, Archdale works an 18-hour day,
longs for the time when the theatre
will be self-supporting or subsidised
and a younger man can take over.
He lives at the back of the theatre, so
Mr. Alex
Archdale ...
“suburbia is
a disaster
for an actor”
he does not find it necessary to dress
with the company. “But sometimes,
when I go back into my rooms to put
on my make-up, I am conscious of a
terrible and abject loneliness. I have
to turn on television or pick up a book
to stop myself getting maudlin.”
But work for the theatre he loves
has made the single life worth while.
He is playing now in “The Old
Bachelor,” in which he doesn’t play
the name part —but Fondlewife instead.
The Governor, Sir Roden Cutler,
attended the opening. “Perhaps we
have arrived at last, at the Community
Theatre,” its mentor said wistfully.
Miss Doris Allard, bowered in roses
in her garden at Burwood, near
Sydney, has survived the single life for
77 years, the last five of which have
been the most exciting and enjoyable
of all.
The well-loved aunt of a large and
happy family, “dear Aunt Doll” sud-
denly emerged from the gentle pur-
suits of old age and electrified her
relatives by buying racehorses and
entering that tough, no-holds-barred
atmosphere of the professional racing
circuit. What’s more, she came
through a winner, both on the track
and off it, earning the respect of
everyone from the stable boys to the
syndicates.
Dolly Allard has always been an
amateur punter, picking the winners
with a pin or because she liked their
names. She loved animals and had
always supported the RSPCA, but this
hardly qualified her for the racing life.
At 72, feeling for the first time in a
busy life a little jaded, she walked into
a stable and ordered a horse. “Just like
buying a pound of tea. I knew so little
about it.”
At the following Yearling Sales she
bought Royal Rene, calling him after
her dachshund dog, who so adores his
mistress he fights her for room on
every chair she uses, and lies there
gazing mistily into her face. Royal
Rene, the biggest horse on the tracks
at the present time, was followed by
The Snow Burner, both horses also
having much the same affection for
their owner as the little dog. Miss
Allard gives them treats and cups of
tea and is generally a delight in the
stables.
“I’ve always loved people,” Miss
Allard said. “And I’ve travelled three
times round the world —even to places
like China and Algiers but since I’ve
had the horses it’s as though I’ve come
out into the world for the first time.”
A great-great-aunt and godmother
to three generations, Miss Allard has
always been an important part of-her
family. “If you have a large family
and you love them, it makes up for
many things. Sometimes I stand back
at a family gathering and I can see
them all as children again even
some who are grandparents now.”
The youngest of her father’s first
family, Dolly Allard was so high
spirited as a child that she used to be
sent to run round the house to settle
herself down. Her mother died when


Miss Doris Allard ... “make what you can of second best”
she was still a girl, and 18 months later
her father married again. “There were
always children everywhere.” Her
stepmother also died young, as did her
elder sister. Miss Allard began to be
“Aunt Doll” to many children whose
lives had been turned upside down.
Later she nursed her father in ill
health.
She did not deliberately choose the
single life. “Nonsense marriage is
what women are made for. All the
lovely fun of getting a trousseau and
the wedding and your own house and
children! But if marriage, which is the
best thing, doesn’t fall your way, make
what you can of second best. That’s
what I did.”
Her travels round the world took
her to Sicily and Rome before World
War I, where she and her sisters braved
brigands in the mountains. She was
lost in Algiers, travelling by camel when
she couldn’t go any other way. She
crossed Europe just before World
War 11, then, not satisfied with that
close call, went on to Indo-China,
Java, and Japan just /ahead of the
attack on Pearl Harbor. She has been
to the United States, Canada, and
South Africa —in fact, wherever the
tourist can go Miss Allard has ventured.
But Australia claims her attention now.
“I am learning more all the time.
Every day is interesting.” She does not
live alone but with a friend who shares
her excitement about racing. “I often
think people are always waiting for
something big to happen. And yet when
the big things come they aren’t always
enjoyable. It’s better to enjoy what is
happening now. I have a habit of look-
ing at little things and being rather
thankful something coming out in
the garden or just the dog I love.
I really do enjoy life sometimes just
in secret, simple things. If I win a race
that’s marvellous. But so is it if the
horses come through unhurt even if
they haven’t won.”
“I was born for the single life,”
Sheila Scotter, surrounded by paintings,
pots of ivy, scrubbed pine, seated at
her round white desk, in her editor’s
office at “Vogue Australia,” looks down
the years severely at her two attempts
at marriage. “The first should never
have happened. My parents were not
there. I had been at boarding school
from four to 17. I had no one to advise
me. I believe now that no one should
be allowed to marry as a virgin. It
all becomes a matter of luck. Anyway—-
it was annulled. The second time, as
so often happens, the man fell in love
with me as I was, and immediately
tried to change me into someone else.
So that didn’t work.
“The sad thing is that when you are
young you don’t know yourself. I had
always been decisive and independent.
I didn’t know that it was impossible
for me to accept marriage with the man
as boss. That is the intrinsic situation.
The only kind of marriage I could
have been happy in would have been
where the wife has an individual
importance, where husband and wife are
judged as a couple not the
American corporation wife but the
wife of an ambassador or a politician.
Then I would have been essential.”
As it is she feels that she now has
the same independence as a .man, with-
out leading a man’s life.
“It is completely selfish of course
the single life. Today it is possible for
a woman to go anywhere, or almost
anywhere, unescorted. She doesn’t need
men, really, although I would never
want this. I would never want to be a
man or act the feminist role. Quite the
contrary, in fact. But I manage my
love affairs with discretion.”
Having her name coupled with men
she knows only slightly is one source
of irritation Miss Scotter finds with the
single life. Dinner a deux with someone
who may be no more than a business
acquaintance will be immediately mis-
interpreted. She leads a busy social life,
which takes her out at least five nights
a week. She is frequently hostess at
parties and solved the dilemma of
paying the bill in mixed company by
the expedient of becoming one of the
first Australian members of the Diners’
Club. At other times she will arrange
full payment in advance of the party.
“I often have friends to my house
for dinner. I find particularly that men
who are in Australia on some promo-
tional business will be grateful for a
quiet evening. I have quite large parties,
too, of course. I organise very well. This
is never any effort to me.”
Many of Miss Scotter’s close personal
friends are much younger than she is
but she feels this is part of the single
life. “You don’t become dated. You
don't move in ever-diminishing circles.
Although I keep old friends and old
beaus. I see new people all the time.
I don t have children growing up setting
me in a certain age group.”
In her forties, Miss Scotter has un-
abashedly greying hair, warm brown
eyes, and an eagerness for life which
is obvious. But some of this animation
diminished at the thought of children.
“I wanted to adopt a child,” she
said. "But my friends talked me out
of it. They told me, quite rightly, I
suppose, that I was only being selfish.
I wanted the child for myself. I wasn’t
thinking of it. At school, they said, it
would have been Miss Scotter’s child
? 5
She gets on very well with children,
has godchildren and a niece, Jane, in
England, who adores fashion.
Miss Scotter travels frequently, seems
to circle the world at least twice a year,
and counts her friends internationally.
She has a few to whom she turns for
advice when she cannot make her own
decisions. She guards her leisure like a
miser, considers the greatest luxury
being able to read a book for a few
hours alone.
“I am never lonely, unless I get very
tired. And, fortunately, I have very
rarely been ill. When I am, I realise
I am all on my own. Certainly I am
Miss Sheila Scotter. .. “born for the
single life ”


BH
This is the cork
that seals the bottle that
holds the world’s finest
sherry secret
Harveys unique art of blending,
a secret which has produced
Harveys world renowned Bristol
Cream Sherry.
And now, Harveys have brought
their art of blending to Australia.
Discover it for yourself—
Australian made and Australian priced.
... Ask for
HARVEYS
ASPEN CREAM
ASPEN MEDIUM DRY
ASPEN EXTRA DRY
ASPEN TAWNY
ASPKN
THE WORLD’S FINEST SHERRIES AND PORTS
E66IA
not beholden to anyone, not possessed.
But I think ‘God I’ll die in the night.’
I hate women who are sorry for them-
selves, though, and I’m not the
whinging type. I don’t inflict my
troubles on others.
“I suppose,” she said. “Marriage, if
it’s happy, is probably the nicest
state.”
James Dibble, the familiar news-
reader of the ABC, could be statisti-
cally numbered among the never-
married, though he would add “as
yet.”
Beginning his ABC life as a prices
investigator in the accounts depart-
ment, James Dibble is a slightly frus-
trated actor, though he admits enjoying
reading the news. An attempt to take
part in May Hollinworth’s “Do You
Know the Milky Way,” at the Inde-
pendent Theatre left him exhausted
because of the commitments of his
television and radio work.
A favorite uncle to two nieces and
one nephew with whom he spends a
great deal of time, Dibble has made a
home for his mother and an aunt. He
spends his spare time as involved as
any man can be with the domesticity
of lawns and gardens, fences and
patios.
He does not recommend the single
life. “As you get older, being unmar-
ried is a social drawback. I have many
friends and they all make me very
welcome but I do sometimes feel
uncomfortable as though I’ve left
someone behind.”
He does not class himself as a social
butterfly and in fact cannot be, because
he works every night. He misses many
social events he would enjoy. “Like the
preview of ‘Star!’ and cocktails for Miss
World. I felt very bad missing Miss
World.”
He receives regular fan mail from
his evening invasion of Australia’s
living-rooms, has to do a considerable
amount of work before the broadcast
so that he can safely look so disarm-
ingly into our eyes.
Sometimes he feels a little stagnant
in his role and would like to try some-
thing else. “Often people get this desire
to do a complete about-face. But it is
rather Walter Mittyish. I recently read
a book for the blind called rather
fittingly, I thought: ‘The Midsummer
Madness of Mr. Sermon’.” Most of
Dibble’s madness is dissipated annually
in Perisher Valley, where he itches to
go skiing as soon as the first snow falls.
He enjoys music (mostly classical)
and between the 7 p.m. news and his
next appearance, reads, plays chess, or
practises on an electronic organ.
He waits for the appearance of Miss
Right with a certain amount of wry
amusement at his own expense
advises other men not to dally too long.
“Don’t rush but don’t be too cau-
tious. It’s better to be together in this
life than alone. Don’t be over-critical,
either. After a while you decide that
all people are human the ideal gives
place to reality. And perhaps the ideal
woman doesn’t exist.”


When you’re off to London
to see your married sister again
after seventeen years, it’s nice to go
with someone you know.
*
m.
We know how you feel when you’re flying off to the other side of the world.
Wondering how it’ll be when you get there. Who to ask about the right things to do.
If there’s something on your mind you can tell us about it. If you’ve got a problem
we’ll take care of it. We’ll make you feel at home all the way. Our kind of service comes
from knowing you. You’re not on your own. Qantas is someone you know.
is someone you know
QANTAS FLIES YOU TO LONDON THROUGH THE FAR EAST, THE ORIENT, EUROPE, THE U.S.A. OR MEXICO. 11 FLIGHTS A WEEK THROUGH SINGAPORE,
OR HONG KONG AND EUROPE. 8 FLIGHTS A WEEK TO SAN FRANCISCO AND ON ANY DAY TO NEW YORK AND LONDON (WITH BOAC). A FLIGHT A
WEEK THROUGH MEXICO. SEE YOUR QANTAS TRAVEL AGENT.
QANTAS, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, BOAC, MSA and S.A.A., Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney 2000, 'phone 2-0369;
Canberra, 48-1411; Melbourne, 63-0151; Brisbane, 31-2141; Townsville, 6901; Adelaide, 51-7855; Perth, 23-1564/5/6; Hobart, 2-7031; Darwin, 3350/1.
8Q5.107.1511 NAT


LIBERALISING LIBEL
JOURNALISTS WHO HAVE for
years been bitterly attacking the defam-
ation laws in most States, and New
South Wales in particular, may now
at last see some light on the hill.
The recent Working Paper on
Defamation prepared by the Law
Reform Commission of New South
Wales has come to this modest but
encouraging conclusion:
“In general the proposals made in
this paper do not attempt to make any
fundamental alterations in the struc-
ture of the law of defamation as
developed at common law and as
modified by statute in this State over
the years. In a number of instances,
the plaintiff’s remedy has been some-
what strengthened. But more often we
have raised for consideration proposals
which we conceive, if adopted, would
grind down somewhat the individual
teeth of the defamation action where
they bite unwarrantably sharply into
the various aspects of freedom of
speech.”
In this field no one asks for perfect
freedom of speech for the smearer
and reckless defamer. The point of
defamation law is to balance the con-
flicting rights of free speech and free-
dom from smearing; the problem in
New South Wales, as elsewhere in Aus-
tralia, in Britain, and in America, is
that the balance has tilted too heavily
against freedom of speech and against
outspoken public debate. The law has
been abused to harass political com-
mentators; “stop writs” have been used
as a censorship device to silence debate;
juries have been awarding fantastic
damages no award in Australia has
reached the American record of $3 mil-
lion, but they have been outrageously
high and inhibit free discussion; some
judges have interpreted the law nar-
rowly and illiberally; and until this
year the Court of Appeal could not
correct unreasonable verdicts. In this
atmosphere some publications have
been destroyed by the cost of litigation,
many articles of public importance do
not get published, and political, busi-
ness, and sporting journalists (as well
as academic writers) begin to lose the
necessary sense of daring.
At the same time, gold-diggers flourish
by exploiting the law. For every honest
man who feels the bitterness you inevit-
ably feel when a smearer attempts to
damage your good name there are a
dozen speculators who are delighted at
finding themselves able, in the present
circumstances, to claim to be defamed.
The day of “defamation” is the happiest
day of their lives as they rush delightedly
to their lawyers, if their lawyers haven’t
rushed delightedly to them first. In many
cases the only person who is by any
commonsense standard defamed is the
writer who, in the court proceedings, has
to sit, silent, while, under privilege, an
apparently scurrilous and shameless bar-
rister defames him to the jury.
Consider some of the ways in which
the law now operates —-and in all of
these the Working Paper suggests reform.
1. At the moment, any person, say, a
politician, may take out a writ of defa-
mation without any intention of pursuing
the matter and purely to silence his
critics. The writ costs next to nothing,
and, although he will not continue the
matter, the critic cannot be sure of this
but knows that if he does continue his
criticism he risks increasing any damages
that may be awarded against him, and
he may also be prosecuted for contempt.
In any case, his solicitor is bound to
advise him to stop his criticism.
The Working Paper recognises that
any remedy for this which impedes the
citizen’s free access to the courts could
be worse than the abuse. For example,
some reformers want to penalise a
stop-writ plaintiff who does not con-
tinue his action by making him pay
to ten times the defendant’s costs
unless he satisfies a judge that he had a
genuine sense of grievance and origi-
nally intended to continue the action.
(The penalty would have to be steep
or it would make no difference.) Such
a “reform” could deter many plaintiffs
who have a genuine grievance and
could involve a plaintiff in what the
Working Paper calls “a vindictive
measure of costs in circumstances which
it is beyond our ingenuity to define in
such a way as not to catch plaintiffs
whose delay is not a tactic but due to
causes beyond their control.”
The Working Paper suggests a dif-
ferent solution to the stop-writ abuses.
It “advances for consideration” the
proposal that a defendant should be at
liberty to apply t to the Court for an
order that the matter should cease to
be sub judice on the grounds of public
interest and public importance. This
would not penalise or deter plaintiffs
but would free public discussion
again.
2. At the moment a publisher loses
several defences if he has not complied
with all the laws, however technical
or petty, regulating printing and pub-
lishing. For example, if his publication
does not carry the full name and full
address of the publisher and printer—
and many publications, especially the
smaller ones, do not do so in full
pedantic detail, although it is quite
clear to any commonsense person who
is the printer and publisher he may
net try to mitigate any damages by
giving evidence of having apologised
and he may not plead that as well as
apologising he showed no malice or
negligence. Because of a trivial techni-
cal breach he loses important defences.
This is Section 41. The Working Paper
recommends its repeal.
3. At the moment a publisher or
writer may plead as a defence that the
publication was made in good faith
for the public good. But the courts
have held that the publication is not
for the public good if there is “excess
of publication.” This means, for
example, that a metropolitan paper or
magazine may not publish exposures
of local or municipal scandals even
though the readers look to the metro-
politan papers for this sort of report-
ing and such municipal matters are of
general interest. A local scandal may
only be safely exposed in a local paper,
if there is one, and if it happens to
engage in political journalism, which
many, probably most, do not. This
may seem fantastic to the average
person, but it is the law.
The Working Paper suggests that
the area of publication should no
longer be regarded as excessive merely
because of the extent of circulation,
provided that the publication reaches a
substantial number of people in the
locality concerned or having the special
interest.
4. At the moment a jury may
award punitive damages, that is, dam-
ages tended to punish the defendant,
not merely to compensate the plaintiff.
In England the House of Lords has
held that juries may do this only in
certain special circumstances, for
example, when the defamatory matter
was published to make a profit from
publishing it (which would not include
a paper which happened to make a
profit but did not publish the defama-
tion in question with a view to profit).
The Australian courts have not fol-
lowed this English decision and have
held that this is a policy matter for
the Parliaments to decide. 'Meanwhile,
juries may award punitive damages,
further encouraging speculators’ harass-
ment of critics.
The Working Paper suggests that
Parliament change the law so that
only compensatory and not punitive
damages may be awarded.
5. Section 5 of the New South
Wales Defamation Act is the famous
“defamation of the dead” section. It
includes in the definition of defamation
any defamatory imputation of any
person “whether living or dead.” This
has been attacked ever since its intro-
duction as a crippling restriction on
historians and historical biographers.
In fact it has not changed the common
law, but there is no doubt it has
restricted writers and publishers who
have some fear of Section 5.
The Working Paper recommends its
repeal.
6. At the moment fair reports pub-
lished in good faith of Australian parlia-
mentary and court proceedings, however
defamatory, are privileged and not
actionable. But this protection is not
given to fair reports of foreign —say
Asian 6r American —parliamentary and
court proceedings. So, despite Australia’s


Give the
revolutionary
new shape of
SHEAFFER
Ballpoints gift-
wrapped in gold
from just $2.50.
tea
Give a Sheaffer ballpoint and it
comes gift-wrapped in an elegant
gold box. You just add “Merry
Christmas". Choose the stylish
Sheaffer 505 for example. Your choice
of black, burgundy or blue barrels
with a lustrous gold-plated cap. And,
like all Sheaffer ballpoints, it has the ex-
clusive “Safeguard” clip that keeps it
safely stowed away in the pocket ... and
automatically retracts the point so that ink-
stained clothing is a thing of the past.
Sheaffer 505 Ballpoint $5.25.
$
It's smart to give
(and be seen with) a
SHEAFFER
W.A. Sheaffer Pen Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
Heidelberg, Vic. 3084.
Sales Offices in all States.
By PETER COLEMAN
increasing involvement in Asian, Ameri-
can, and world affairs, fair reports of
these foreign proceedings could give a
foreign politician the right to sue a pub-
lisher and writer in an Australian court.
This could become an increasingly dan-
gerous restriction.
The Working Paper suggests wider
protection to include these reports.
These examples of suggested reforms
are enough to indicate the importance of
this Working Paper to anyone concerned
with free speech in Australia. (It should
be remembered that one long-advocated
reform—giving an Appeal Court the
right to correct absurdly high damages
awarded by a jury—has already been
established by legislation this year:
Section 160 A, Administration of Justice
Act, 1968. Before this, the only remedy
was to order a new trial and start the
whole thing all over again.)
The Working Paper is essentially a
legal document dealing mainly with
technical legal matters as it works
through the 42 sections of the New
South Wales Defamation Act. But it is
liberal in spirit throughout—from its
rejection of the whole idea of codifica-
tion as attempted in 1958 to its treat-
ment of the controversial matters
selected for mention here. It does for
defamation what, in other countries,
judges have been willing to do —breathe
a spirit of liberalism and commonsense
into the law.
Occasionally judges have spoken out
in Australia, but never as clearly as, for
example, the United States Supreme
Court, which in the recent “New York
Times” case stressed “a profound
national commitment to the principle
that debate on public issues should be
uninhibited, robust, and wide open, and
that it may well include vehement ,
caustic, and sometimes unpleasant
sharp attacks on government and
public officials.”
This judgment was a sort of con-
temporary charter of free speech. This
Working Paper may serve a similar
role in Australia and the anonymous
writer deserves congratulations.
One last word: It is a Working Paper,
not a Report or a Draft Bill. It will not
be translated into legislation as quickly
as, say, the Report of the Select Com-
mittee on Aborigines, which took only
a year to reach the First Reading stage.
This is a Working Paper now up for
public and professional discussion. After
that will come a Report, then Govern-
ment decision on policy questions, and
finally a Draft Bill and legislation.
We have still some time to wait
before, in the words of the Working
Paper, the teeth of defamation actions
which bite unwarrantably sharply into
freedom of speech are ground down
somewhat. But at least the Law Reform
Commission has shown the direction of
its thinking. This is a tremendous step.
It is up to the rest of us to support it.


Escalope Cordon Bleu
Brochette de Volailie
Steak en Boite with Sauce Mexicaine
RS*VP
You’re a ‘Beppi’s’ man, right?
‘Florentino’ maybe?
But it’s 7 pm and you’re flying with us.
Great. This is the elegant part of our
day. Our chefs (very understanding
people) have been preparing since
the wee small hours of the morning,
a selection of Gourmet meals for you.
And Jan is waiting to serve you.
The elegant part of a day only
happens once a day. Why not make
the most of it? A votre service!
AIRLINES OF AUSTRALIA
DIVISION OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES (OPERATIONS) PTY. LTD.
A


Getting
the word
from
La Mama
By RICHARD CAMPBELL
Betty Burstall, founder of Melbourne’s La Mama
“THERE COMES a time when a
person wants to hear the word,” said
a reflective Ken Taylor, “and if he
feels the need, he has to go to the poets
—the people who are doing it at this
moment.” For a group of Melbourne
poets and their admirers the place of
the moment is an old warehouse in
Carlton called La Mama.
Taylor, a radio-writer and program
organiser with the ABC, returned from
two years of reading East Asian history
in America at the time when La Mama
began. “The ‘thing’ had started when
I was in America, but I didn’t see any
sign of it here until La Mama came.
I remember talking to a writer I knew
at Cornell. He said, ‘Go back and
change Australian poetry,’ but I told
him then that Australians were just not
interested.
“He said there was a time when
people turned to the written word. I
almost didn’t believe him. The process
has started here. This is proved by the
audiences at La Mama. A consistent
audience of 40 or 50 people means
something significant. It is not some-
thing that can be dismissed.”
La Mama, like much of the poetry
that circulates across its worn floor-
boards, has American inspiration. Its
owner, Betty Burstall, who is married
to film producer Tim Burstall, began
the omnibus theatre, poetry hall, and
restaurant after seeing a similar place
in New York. It was a spot where
“underground” writers could emerge,
congregate, feel free to express them-
selves in their own idiom, grow enthusi-
astic, and then go away to do more.
The formula has also worked in
Melbourne. Anyone who wants to read
can go along on Tuesday evenings
after nine, be fixed with a place on the
agenda, and then give forth. The poets
are mostly young, in their early twenties
or late teens, with a sprinkling of
oldies, and although La Mama’s is
three minutes from Melbourne Univer-
sity, undergraduates don’t predominate.
In fact, the bias of the La Mama
scene is decidedly non-academic. The
three or four dozen poets (if you write
poetry you are a poet at La Mama)
who have read at La Mama would not
all think of themselves as “under-
ground,” but most favor a poetry of a
■sort unacceptable to those literary
magazines that still believe rhyme,
stanza, and some regularity or pattern
of metre is preferable.
“Underground” at La Mama con-
notes experiment, free expression, not
being “hung-up on classical mythology,”
and an avoidance of the over-subtle.
The “academics,” who in some con-
versations seem to be everyone but
them, are treated with a good-natured
condescension. There is a more-or-less
common assumption that the “academic
poets” and their ci'onies are writing
themselves up a blind alley with their
four-and-five foot, simile-cluttered lines,
and their distasteful, spare-time habit
of picking each other to bits.
In contrast, the poets open to the
modern influences are believed to have
found, or to be in the process of finding,
a new clarity, a new precision of~
emotion, and fresh ways of seeing the
world.
The history of poetry is an unending
tale of new departures, revolutions,
denunciations of the hackneyed past,
and often they have had a broadly
political tinge. The La Mama people
are not claiming that they are original
their influences are clear enough but
it is interesting that they reject one
loosely native cultural identity in favor
of an American-influenced identity.
They are open to a particular sort of
American influence: Whitman, Hart
Crane, William Carlos Williams,
Kerouac, Ginsberg, and the San
Francisco Bay poets, and the so-called
Black Mountain Group, Creely, Olson,
Robert Duncan, and Denise Levertov.
The list is by no means exhaustive and
it doesn’t necessarily imply direct
derivation, but it points to areas of
affinity to what amounts to an exclusion
of both modern Australian poetry and
modern British poetry.
There is a shared belief that in Aus-
tralia poetry has come under the sway
of the academy or an academy of the
out-of-date tastes of an older generation.
Their patterns of speech and feeling,
their propensity for ifs and buts, the
inaction of the intellectual middle class
are thought, by the La Mama group,
to have taken some of the life from
poetry and divorced it from the streets
where it could live and keep in touch.
Kris Hemensley, a young immigrant
from the Isle of Wight who writes full-
time, said, “Academic poets enshrine
themselves in the idea of a poet or
poem. Poetry reading is not claret, verse,
and a harpsichord. It is not entertain-
ment and it is not a beautiful alternative
to living.” Hemensley thinks too many
poets hide themselves behind their
profession. “They have a nine-to-five
attitude to metres and disciplines. They
have iambic dynosauric feet.”
Eng. Lit. is abandoned along with its
practitioners. If Hemensley is typical
they find an obvious irrelevance about
scrupulous attention to past poetry. It
simply does not speak to them. Poetry
is regarded as no arcane affair con-
sciously studied and fabricated. It is
to be spoken here and now, delivered
from the throat, written often, quickly,
and to suffer little revision.
For Hemensley, a leading figure both
because of his articulacy and his
organisation of the Tuesday evenings,
the poem comes easily: “The poem is in
your head; you just write it. I see forms
apd structures readily they are all
around me but the form does not
precede and is not pre-eminent.”
This does not mean that the poet
should be a facile babbler: “If there was
a cult of the spontaneous this would
be as bad as a cult of the disciplined
poem. It would be like going to a
party and saying let’s be spontaneous.”
His friend Charles Buckmaster, a 17-
year-old laboratory assistant, who says


One of your staff, using Kodak Verilith
plates and the Itek Platemaster,
can speed up communications
in your business. He can make
a press-ready plate in just 30
seconds, small offset dupli-
cator can then print thousands
of forms, reports, letters,
price lists, training manuals,
specifications,
etc. in
hours.
V
ft
. -
i
You
can
have
“same day”
service every day,
with the added bonus of
complete security for
confidential information.
The Verilith plate runs 10,000 or more
sharp, clear, copies at very low cost.
Fill in the coupon for further
literature, or a trained Business
Systems Analyst to call and
demonstrate, without obligation,
how communications can be
improved in your business.
To: Business Systems Markets Division, KODAK (Australasia)
PTY. LTD., P.O. Box 90, Coburg, Vic., 3058.
□ Please make an appointment to discuss the Kodak
Verilith Platemaking Method.
□ Send me literature on the Itek Platemaster
Name
Company.
Address...
.Tel. No.
Business Systems Markets Division
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
K 1934


he is concerned with a “direct and
simple poetry,” also writes quickly and
rarely revises. Both edit their own
mimeographed poetry sheets and print
poems that usually share their taste for
the sparseness of the open - line
approach. Each word counts and the
line is as long as the statement: it may
be only as long as a single word or it
may be much longer.
The spacings of the typewriter are
used according to the doctrine of the
theorist of projective verse, Charles
Olson, to indicate exactly the breath, the
pauses, the suspensions even of syllables,
and the juxtapositions of parts of
phrases. Olson wrote 18 years ago that,
for first time, the poet had with his
typewriter the bar and stave of the
musician.
For the first time the poet could,
without the convention of rhyme and
metre, record the listening the poet had
done to his own speech, and by that act
indicate how he would want any reader
to voice his work.
Robert Creely established the doctrine
of the school when he said, “Form is
an extension of content.” It is reversal
of the Platonic belief that for each
poetic statement there is an appropriate
form; the form is not antecedent to
the statement, but flows, as it were,
naturally from the expression.
The obvious advantage of this free-
don? from the traditional line is that
it allows a variety of discordant,
abrupt effects to be brought in. It also
allows for central statements to be
isolated, and in the hands of a lyricist
it can allow new harmonies and
rhythms.
The competence of the scores of poets
who have been spawned by the half
dozen or so “underground magazines”
which have been published in Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide is hard to
judge by two or three poems which may
or may not be consciously modern.
If the La Mama people tend to
arrogate all the experimentation to
themselves, their notional hostility to
older patterns of poetry forms a useful
cut-off point. There is much fun to
be derived from feeling subversive and
anarchistic. They tend to overlook the
fact that the doyen of the academics,
Eliot himself, pronounced upon the
necessity for returning to contemporary
speech to revitalise the language and of
continually breaking and remaking
poetic forms. Indeed, he even said the
poem comes before the form.
The point of difference is less in
the readiness to “purify the dialect of
the tribe”; it is more in the different
choices of dialect.
The dialect of the extra-mural La
Mama is less influenced by what they
read than what they hear. As Hemensley
said, “Language is dying away—that’s
the number one premise. Anything that
can help arrest this ought to be looked
into. The big poetry readings of the
past few years all across the world
have opened up language and are help-
ing to restore it to dynamic form.”
One of Buckmaster’s chief influences
was Bob Dylan, a far remove from the
poetry 'of elegant phrasing.
There is this sense of urgency in
some La Mama politics as well as their
poetics. The very name “projectivist”
gives a clue. Olson talked of the kinetic
of the poem, of the poem as a high-
energy construct and at all points an
energy discharge. There was to be no
slackness in the line, and all the ele-
ments of the poem were to create
tensions just as totally as did the objects
in the external world.
It is not surprising that a theory that
the poem is energy transferred would
appeal to people who hold that “art
is life,” and who often espouse anar-
chistic politics and dramatic stands to
express their views.
There is a sense at La Mama that
events are moving too swiftly to justify
the tranquil methods of the past.
McLuhan has declared that history
happens and can be judged almost
immediately. The speed of the present
tends to negate the past. There is both
Kris
Hemensley
. .. “poetry
is not
entertain-
ment”
instantaneous communication and little
communication.
The excitement of expression wears
thin for those poets who have a culti-
vated audience which responds to
nuance and allusion, but to younger
writers who hear the welter of com-
mercial jargon on their radios and who
have spent the greater part of their
lives among the conversational routines
of the suburbs, immediacy has a greater
satisfaction.
Bill Beard, a short-story writer, poet,
ex-RAAF technician, and university
student, speaks of his manner of writing
poetry as getting “a cut-up from life.”
“The source of dynamism comes from
the object,” he says. “The words are
placed physically to create images that
are non-sensuous and rather like trun-
cated film stills.”
His politics also follow logically
from a poetics of action. He believes
it is not enough for a writer to bring
heightened awareness to human situa-
tion. He must go further and try to
show the guide lines or the way out.
Beard is planning to spend some
time next year in what he describes as
a depressed urban area to see if he
could start talking to people and
encourage them to do their own writing
or crafts and make them public. He
thinks the urban life is the life of the
future and that it can’L be revitalised
just by a few new buildings. He says
he would like to see people play in
public more and create their own myths
and own small communities.
His idea parallels another La Mama
theme, the necessity for “free areas”
of expression. La Mama is one free
area: they would like to see more.
In one poem Hemensley put it:
“You fly to Mars to get away from
yourself
When all that has to be done is make
a playground of the streets.”
If their responsiveness to new
American poetry doesn’t horrify some
writers, the La Mania unwillingness to
espouse critical values probably would.
Ken Taylor, whose poetry is possibly
more individual than any of the other
poets (he is 38) and less prone to
doctrine, has a distaste for the usual
analysis and placing. “Criticism is
aggression,” he says.
“Personally, the whole verbal thing
seems terribly dangerous. I’m afraid of
talking analytically or descriptively
about any writer or painter or art form
. . . I have a fear of the purely verbal
life. It can become a machine that
devitalises and makes impossible the
personal idiosyncrasy and the contact
with the thing itself. I respect those
who do it, but it is irrelevant to me.”
Hemensley is more blunt: “I don’t
accept the existing politics of value.
The value is that it has been written.
If you ask a Balinese where are their
‘Great Works of Art’ the answer you
will get is, ‘We do everything the best
we can’.”


These barrels hold the reasons
why Mildara Three Star Brandy
will taste the same this year,
next year, even ten years hence.
Fine Brandy is the sum of many different factors. The quality of
the original grapes. The skill of the distiller. The type of still.
The cask oak. The time of ageing. And, above all, the skill
of the blender. He subtly blends brandies of varying
ages to produce a consistent style which will not
change from year to year. Barrel One for example,
was laid down in 1936. Barrel Two in 1944,
Barrel Three, 1950, Barrel Four,
1961, Barrel Five, 1963 and Barrel
Six, 1966, the youngest spirit
allowed by Excise. There are many
other brandies of differing years
which, with the Blender’s art,
produce Mildara Three Star
Brandy. Consistently good, no
matter when you buy it.
H:
/AiM
MILD
BRANDY
4
434
©
:
■ Z?> 5
ir 3 7“
• W
- ■
<D
6
EtaS*


Encouraging the natives
By PETER SAMUEL
TWO WEEKS AGO a small clump of
apple box trees outside the front gate
of the Prime Minister’s Lodge were
cleared away with the flick of a bull-
dozer’s blade, even as public servants
resident in the south-west of Canberra
crawled bumper to bumper down
Adelaide Avenue toward their offices.
The two-lane road outside the Lodge
is being widened into a six-lane freeway.
Similarly, the view from the Italian
Ambassador’s bedroom and from the
Japanese Embassy balcony has been
stripped of eucalypts as the large yellow
insect-machines of the road contractors
form up the new highway.
Four miles farther out toward the
Murrumbidgee River in a magnificent
stretch of undulating countryside,
framed to the west by the Brindabella
mountains, with the Alps in the back-
ground, treed with large mature red-
gums and broken by pleasant creeks,
the trenching machines are busily at
work. Trucks are transporting concrete
pipes for the sewerage of a new 40,000
population, which will reside in Weston
Creek, an extension of the Woden
area. The creeks will go in those, and
though the planners talk a lot about
keeping trees, many, if not most, will
go. And entei'prising blokes with noisy
chainsaws will come and cut them up
for firewood at weekends.
Ten acres of countryside are taken up
for urban purposes each day in Can-
berra, and a new suburb started each
four months. “How to Naturalise Can-
berra,” by Jane and Allen Correy (8.,
26/10/G8), rather missed the central
point, which is how to conserve the
best in the indigenous landscape and
adapt it to the development of the
metropolitan area.
What landscape designers can most
valuably provide is ideas on how to
conserve the landscape as urbanisation
inevitably proceeds. More specifically,
how to retain some of the charm of a
creek once it is surrounded by houses.
The current solution is either to pipe
it or to convert it to a sterile stone or
concrete channel. Granted that run-off
of water inevitably increases somewhat
as the soft ground of grassed fields is
replaced by the asphalt and tiled sur-
faces of an urban area, there is surely
something that can be done to retain
some of the informal charm of natural
watercourses. And the trees? Possibly
the solution is that in heavily treed areas
housing blocks should be deliberately
designed to be larger than elsewhere so
that it is easier for them to be retained.
A lot of the Correys’ criticism of
Canberra design is rather irrelevant,
because 4t is a criticism of what was
designed and done many years ago. The
“plumber’s planning” (or should we
call it “draughtsman’s design”?) of
circles and crescents is confined entirely
to the older suburbs completed before
World War 11. It is part of Griffin’s
plan. It has been abandoned a long
time ago, and new suburbs are being
designed using more rational criteria,
the planners trying to separate traffic
of different types and channel it into
appropriately designed roads. Suburbs
are given some identity as units by the
use of treed hills and ridgelines as
boundaries between one and the next.
I share the Correys’ dislike of the
“baroque monumentality” of the great
Griffin vistas, but again they are part
of the characteristic design of the city.
Judging from the comments of the
tourists who gather on the steps of
Parliament House and look across the
Lake to the War Memorial down
Griffin’s “central axis,” the design is
popular. There is a certain magnificence
of scale which apparently evokes some
sense of national identity. Like the Lake
itself, it is a sort of Menzian whimsy,
which tells us about a past era. To fuzz
its severe lines by “informal planting,”
as the Correys suggest, would be to
destroy a bit of Australian history.
Could such a vista ever really be
reduced, as they suggest, to a “human
scale”? But by all means let us urge
avoidance of this sort of expensive
grandioseness in the future.
The Correys are simply wrong in
levelling the complaint of “prettifica-
tion” and “fragmented pocket planting”
at Canberra’s landscapers. The few
examples they cite, of floral displays on
traffic roundabouts and the heavily
fastigiate, funereal planting of City Hill,
are again pre-war efforts, and the entire
resources of the present landscapers are
devoted to the very “total design con-.
cept” which they urge: the heavy and
vigorous planting of ridgelines, shelter-
belts, and streets. And far from being
designed as simple “deserts of asphalt”
the carparks of Canberra are being
heavily planted with trees.
Advocacy of native-trees-only can
become fetish and unfunctional into the
bargain. Canberra has a very severe
climate by the temperate standards of
our entirely coastal capitals, with the
summer very hot and the winter
extremely cold. And in and around
domestic .housing it is simply much
more functional to have deciduous trees,
which allow the sun to penetrate in
winter, while excluding it in summer
when it is unwanted. Of the two new
Canberra towns being built Woden
and Belconnen—the first is being
planted with natives along ridgelines,
so that the “framing” of skylines is
fully Australian, whereas Belconnen is
entirely indigenous in public planting.
There is surely not much for an
Australian nativist to complain of in
that.
Attractive landscape is surely more
than the tasteful melding of physical
elements. The Hobart Place design,
which the Correys praise as “the best
in urban landscape,” is one of the most
sterile parts of Canberra city, and
Garema Place, which they describe as
“mediocre” in design, is extremely
lively and attractive. The difference
seems mainly that the first never has
more than a few solitary individuals
moving around it, while the second is
a colorful throng of people. The paving
and planting and relation of buildings
of Hobart Place may be admirable
examples of modern aesthetics, but the
area is a failure because of its lack of
life.
The Lake certainly needs to be made
more use of. An extension of the City
right down toward the shore of the
Lake would do a great deal for it.
And elsewhere along its shores hotels,
restaurants, government office buildings,
and tower-blocks of fiats would enable
us to make much better use of this
expensively built landscaping. The
thought is not particularly original,
however, as the planners already have
a number of building sites along the
Lake shore marked on their maps of
“Future Canberra.”
There certainly is a “smugness” and
uniformity about Canberra’s dormitory
areas, though that is mainly a reflection
of the fact that Canberrans are much
like other Australians, demonstrating a
marked preference for the cottage on
the quarter-acre block. A good deal of
experiment in housing is proceeding:
Harry Seidler’s fascinating patio-
housing estate in Garran, and a score
of projects for “non-standard housing,”
such as Radburn layouts, terraces,
garden-patios, and so on. Maybe the
Government could be more bold and
build more of tins, but it is really more
an economic question than a landscape-
design one: do people want this sort
of housing, and are they prepared to
pay for it? Maybe they are: I hope so,
because I like the look of it better, but
I am not the only person involved.
Canberra certainly has been too
lavish with grass and open space, as
the Correys say. Some institutions —-
the National University is the prime
example—are so scattered that staff
and many students, too, drive from one
building to another, adding tremen-
dously to the demand for car-park
space. The excess of lawn throughout
the city results from excessively large
verges and building-setback lines. It is
encouraged, too, by heavily subsidised
water. In the dry surroundings of the
national capital, water is considerably
more expensive to store and supply than
in Melbourne or Sydney, and yet it
comes more cheaply. And the great
bulk of it goes on to lawns. A paying
price might end some of that waste.


■
From July ’67 to June ’6B, j]
TAA recorded a successful year
of competitive business
achievement and jet-age progress 1


TAA is in business
for your business
Every passenger and every pound of Jet Cargo
that TAA carries is won in open business
competition. During the year, TAA set new
passenger records, carrying more than half the
number of passengers on competitive routes.
TAA continues to be the preferred airline among
Australian air travellers. TAA also set new records
in the carriage of Jet Cargo and Jet Express.
TAA earns a profit
In the financial year 1967/68, TAA earned a net
profit after tax of $1,133,384 so continuing its fine
record of profitability.
TAA pays taxes
Like public companies, TAA pays income tax,
payroll tax and sales tax, as well as special
industry charges including air route fees and
aviation fuel tax. During 1967/68, these amounted
to $7,310,000.
TAA pays a 7k% dividend
In addition, TAA has maintained a 7V2% dividend
amountingto $1,125,0000n capital, and has made
provision for the payment of this dividend into
the Federal Treasury.
Operating results 1967/1968
Passengers carried
Jet Express, Cargo, Mail carried
(short tons)
Total Revenue
Total Expenses and Tax Provision
Net Profit
2,169,562
39,014
$71,052,195
$69,918,811
$1,133,384
319 lOH
The Progressive Airline
TAA achieved these successful results
through its continuing leadership
and industry innovations introduced
during the year. In-flight innovations
such as ... Club Snacks, Continental
Breakfasts and recently the Wine
Service. New developments such as
computerised reservations for
fast seat bookings extended
during the year to many centres.
Further extensions are planned. TAA
was also the first domestic airline
with Jet simulators . . . actual T-Jet
flight decks, fully instrumented to
simulate flying conditions for pilot
training (727 simulator operative
August ’67, DC9 simulator October ’6B).
TAA has materially helped develop
tourism within Australia, through
the heavy promotion of resorts and
interstate holiday travel. Bookings
for TAA’s own pre-planned Friendly
Way Holidays and Tours showed
an increase of 27.5% over the
previous year.
TAA is contributing to Australia’s
export earnings. Because of TAA’s
agency agreements with overseas air-
lines and active sales representation
in many countries, TAA was successful
in flying a record number of overseas
visitors around its 50,000 mile
network connecting 150 centres
throughout Australia and Papua/
New Guinea.
The Fast Growing Airline
Over the past year, TAA increased
its Whispering T-Jet strength by
another two DC9s. Another Fokker
Friendship, and four new Twin Otters
were also added to the fleet with
a fifth ordered.
Future plans. By the end of 1969,
TAA will have added a further two
DC9s and another Boeing 727,
so building its Whispering T-Jet fleet
to eleven. Also scheduled for
delivery in 1969 are four more Fokker
Friendships. These will have the
ability to fly passengers during the
day and cargo at night. With the
introduction of more Whispering
T-Jets, TAA will carry a greater
tonnage of Jet Cargo and Jet Express
than ever before.
By the early 19705, TAA’s entire fleet
will be jet-powered!
TAA is a competitive
business enterprise!
In placing business with TAA you are
supporting competitive enterprise
and safeguarding the right of every
Australian to choose by which airline
he will fly or consign cargo.
Fly TAA the Friendly Way
TAA
jL„


tiuMMb .a 1
makes a meal , .
AGE ;*■*"*
egg flip
CHOCOLATE
, WAFERS
_
9RN r
U \h
one
Alka-Seltzer
90
IKES
ERRi
ANGE JUICE
FLOOR
CLEANER
81 SO
iS FI
£ •
JUO
I
If it’s needed in the morning,
that’s the time to sell it.
And GTV9’s Today Show
is the place.
If the product you’re advertising is
most useful in the morning, make a
spot on GTV9’s Today Show go to work
for you*
Today Show is Melbourne’s only
breakfast television programme,
bringing instant news and topical
interviews to a growing audience.
Compere is popular Mike Walsh, and
hostess is svelte and swinging Bobo Faulkner.
GTV9 guarantees that while you’re
advertising on Today Show none of your
competitors will be allowed to.
Today Show is especially popular with
women.
They’re one more new market GTV9 has
created for you. They’ll be ready to get
your message because you’ll be giving it
out when they’re most likely to want to
look and listen.
In the morning—the time they
need your product. And yours
will be the message they remember.
It will be the last one they get
before they go shopping.
9


FORUM
Two and a half years
without Utzon
By ELIAS DUEK-COHEN
“I HAVE SEEN,” wrote Joern Utzon
recently to a friend in Sydney, “some
of the work the new architects have
done on the major hall, and I can
assure you that their project completely
destroys the beautiful and logical
development of spaces and interplay
between geometrical systems in my
project. Much more is lost than I
anticipated.”
Most of the changes to Utzon’s
design and work for the Sydney Opera
House are still only proposals, and it is
largely from models and drawings that
we must judge how the building is likely
to fare in his absence. But we can also
judge something from the small amount
of new work done since the new
architects took over years ago.
The roof structure and its covering
with tile lids have been the major item
completed in this time. What we can
see is basically in accordance with
Utzon’s ideas except that had he been
here the tiles would have had a richer
texture the recessed joints he aimed
to keep between the tiles were filled in
after he left. Also, the cleft along the
ridge of the shells would have been less
obtrusive than it is he intended it to
be lined with white tiles instead of the
present stainless steel which shows up as
a dark line.
In the past few months the cladding
of the podium walls in a pink re-
constituted granite has also been begun.
The material used, unfortunately, looks
a bit patchy. This is due to the
unsuspecting use of a type of finish
earlier tested and rejected by Utzon for
this very reason. A still greater pity
is the way the skirting is being taken
down into the water. This makes the
building look heavy and causes the base
to be marked with water stains. Utzon’s
intention had been to keep the skirting
above the water, giving the base of the
building a sharp, clean finish, undercut
by shadow.
The third major element in the
exterior, besides the roof shells and the
podium, consists of the glass walls
needed to fill the cavities. Utzon
intended these glass walls to be built
with mullions, 70ft. or more high in
some parts, made of bronze-faced ply-
wood. His repeated requests for per-
mission to make mock-ups were never
granted. Yet after his departure
elaborate mock-ups were made, but of
concrete, which proved unsatisfactory.
Steel then was decided upon, for which
further mock-ups have been made.
The steel mullions as proposed adopt
conventional methods of construction
quite different from the highly sophisti-
cated industrialised methods proposed
by Utzon for his plywood mullions.
These industrialised methods, for which
Utzon has recently received several
awards in Europe and which he has
developed to an unheard-of extent,
require all elements to be reduced to
a few standardised components that can
be mass produced with factory precision,
achieving a quality and economy un-
obtainable from conventional methods.
For this reason alone the proposed steel
mullions can hardly be expected to
attain the standard of Utzon’s plywood
ones. In appearance, while in certain
parts they bravely attempt to follow
Utzon’s outline, they fail to capture the
simplicity of form and the sweeping
grace of the original.
However, all in all, the external
appearance of the building should
remain without any major alteration
from what Utzon conceived. The same
cannot, alas, be said for the interior.
The appearance of the whole interior,
instead of being the product of a single
mastermind, promises to reflect a grand
hotchpotch of ideas fro,m a host of dif-
ferent consultants who have never
coitceived interior and exterior as a
unity.
The glass walls are a case in point.
They are as important to the inside
as the outside of the building. Utzon’s
plywood mullions (faced with bronze
only on the outside) would have
harmonised with the plywood intended
for use elsewhere throughout the build-
ing. The present proposed steel mullions
bear relation to nothing inside the
building.
Again, Utzon’s great auditorium ceil-
ings, designed as a number of huge
undulating plywood beams, echo the
ribbed effect of the underside of the
great concrete roof shells visible in
the foyers. Their curved plywood shapes,
derived from a standard cylinder,
converse with the curved concrete roof
shapes derived from a standard sphere.
There is a wonderful economy in the
design of these auditorium ceiling
beams. Not only does the standardisation
of their curve enable them to be reduced
to a series of mass-produced com-
ponents, they are also structural
elements, partially self-supporting. They
Utzon intended the cleft along the ridge
of the shells to be “lined with white
tiles instead of the present stainless steel,
which shows up as a dark line”
The pink reconstituted granite used for
cladding the podium walls “looks a bit
patchy.” Ulzon intended the skirting to
be above the water for a clean finish
are at the same time acoustic elements
shaped to the exact outline required for
the best sound (as was confirmed in
tests with one-tenth full-size models of
the minor hall).
Air-conditioning and other mechani-
cal services are integrated with them.
They converge in great rippling motions
down to the proscenium opening, con-
centrating the spectators’ attention
there.
In contrast, the present design has
a conventional structure of plywood
panels stuck on to a steel framework
and concealing mechanical services. All
this is so bulky that most of the ribbed
concrete-roof underside will be hidden
from view in the side foyers. The ceil-
ing within the major hall auditoriums
moves upward above the stage, focusing
attention nowhere. There is little in the
design that relates it to what is
happening elsewhere in the building,
inside or out.
But the real trouble with the interior


is more than appearance. The decision
to eliminate opera from the major hall
and to convert it into a single-purpose
hall has made a mockery of the design,
added to costs, and changed the function
of the Opera House. In Utzon’s design
the biggest of the roof shells was to
house the opera stage tower. Now the
upper part of this shell will be hollow.
The steel tower which had been built
inside it was ripped out. Stage
machinery worth several million dollars
has to be abandoned and expensive
alterations have to be made to both
major and minor halls. A separate
concert hall on another site could have
been built more cheaply and quickly.
The proposal for the single-purpose
concert hall was made at a time soon
after Utzon’s departure, when there
seemed to be a need to suggest changes
for the sake of changes, in order per-
haps to discredit Utzon’s ideas and
justify his replacement. One of these
proposals was to turn the restaurant
building into an information centre.
This was so absurd it was discarded, but
the hardly less absurd concert-hall
proposal was proceeded with.
This decision was made against the
advice of the Opera House Trust, which
is supposed to be the body responsible
for managing the Opera House. It was
also quite contrkry to the advice of
Mr. T. Ernest Bean, the former
manager of the Royal Festival Hall,
London, called in by the Government,
who embarrassingly reported that a
single-purpose hall could be expected
to have bookings for not more than
half the evenings in a year. His report
was hushed up and set aside. Acoustic
reasons were advanced in support of
the decision. However, one of the
world’s leading acoustic consultants,
Professor Cremer, of Berlin, favored
Utzon’s design for the dual-purpose
hall. His services were dispensed with.
Claims were made that the seating
in Utzon’s design for the dual-purpose
hall was totally inadequate. The present
concert-hall design has 2750 seats with
a 3ft. row spacing. Utzon has done a
revised design for a dual-purpose hall
having 2800 seats with a 2ft. lOin. row
spacing. His design also has inter-
mediate aisles, whereas the present one
has 50 or more seats continuously in a
row. The existence of this revised design
has simply been ignored.
Admittedly, eliminating opera from
the major hall has released a lot of
space where the opera-stage machinery
and workshops were to have been. But,
so far, apart from a new rehearsal
room, only a so-called cinema hall has
been proposed in this space, inserted
in a manner that looks very much like
the afterthought it is. This is little
compensation for the fact that the
Opera House cannot have grand opera
to the highest international standards.
So far as costs are concerned, the
recent “final” estimate of $B5 million
should have provided some measure of
disillusionment to those who hoped that
Utzon’s departure might at least arrest
the continuing cost escalation.
Fees paid to Utzon over a period of
nine years amounted to $1,080,000. In
comparison, according to the N.S.W.
Auditor-General’s latest report, the sum
of $745,486 was paid over the last
financial year alone for fees and
expenses, including some $213,000 to
the engineers and $245,025 in fees and
$103,248 for expenses to the new archi-
tects. These extra costs are largely the
result of having a plethora of consult-
ants, models, mock-ups, tests, and
information-gathering journeys abroad,
often duplicating work that Utzon had
done years ago.
To sum up, since Utzon has left there
has been little new construction on the
Opera House. Such as there has been
already shows evidence that the aim for
perfection no longer holds good, as
can be seen from the podium cladding.
The proposals for the glass walls
suggest that this trend will continue so
far as the external appearance is con-
A cross-sectional model, illustrating the glass walls, the auditorium ceiling proposed
by Utzon, and the stage tower with machinery and workshop areas below
cerned; the proposals for the interior
can only be described as disastrous
compared with Utzon’s ideas. And costs,
rather than being “brought under con-
trol,” seem to have gone up.
Why, then, has Utzon not been
invited .back? In February this year,
the N.S.W. Minister for Works, Mr.
Davis Hughes, stated that Utzon’s
terms for returning were overall control
and an immediate cash payment of
$350,000. At the same time Utzon
cabled the Premier “to reopen dis-
cussion with me regarding Sydney
Opera House without prior conditions
either side. Would be pleased to return
any time.” This appeal was rejected.
Soon after, questioned on the matter in
a radio interview, Mr. Davis Hughes
said: “I believe we now have the best
team to complete it, irrespective of
Mr. Utzon or anyone else, that’s why.”
And that, so far, has been that.
It is not yet too late to put things
right. If Utzon were to return, the
glass walls could be carried out as
originally intended and the external
appearance largely redeemed. The
interior could be saved and restored to
its original purpose it is technically
possible at reasonable cost to replace
the stage tower in the major hall, and
much of the stage machinery, for it
appears still to be in storage. The
Opera House would be an Opera
House once more. One man and one
man alone is standing in the way of
this happening.
The situation today represents a
triumph for the public relations of Mr.
Davis Hughes. It is an indication of
the gullibility and apathy of the public
at large. It is an indictment of the
more influential members of the com-
munity for the abandonment of their
responsibility in this important issue
and, above all, for their indifference.
The pity is that this is more than just
a local or temporary matter. The
building is not simply another civic
arts centre such as is being built in
cities all over the world. It is inter-
nationally acclaimed, and it is to be
used for generations. If we allow things
to proceed as they are, we will be doing
a disservice not only to ourselves but
to our children and to people every-
where.
“In a way,” wrote Utzon in the letter
quoted above, “I feel that a clear stand
for my project against Mr. Davis
Hughes’ new program and the project
by the architects would be of great
value for the people of Sydney and the
young architects, not because I think
it will help me back, but because I
think that the true pioneering work in
the Opera House should, in a positive
way, be inspiring for the new archi-
tectural generation.
“It can only be understood if there
are in Sydney people who can explain
and who believe in the methods devel-
oped in my Opera House project for
mass production, for geometrical con-
trol, for quality control, and for func-
tional approach to the problems of
dealing with 5000 spectators and
various acoustical performances.”


BUSINESS
AND THE ECONOMY
Some consolation for the General
in his present troubles
AMONG THE GENERAL uncertain-
ties of last week, nobody seemed quite
sure how far gold was involved in the
“European” monetary crisis. Speculators
here took gold stocks higher on the
share markets and then, deciding that
their speculative premises were perhaps
a little shaky, let them slide again. A
significant increase in the price of gold,
went the new premise, would mean a
devaluation of the U.S. dollar. The
European crisis had, if anything,
strengthened the position of the dollar
by reversing capital flow across the
Atlantic. America was not involved.
But the instinctive turning to gold in
times of international monetary trouble
seems as sound a move now as it ever
was. Were it not for gold, it would
have been a European crisis. But
because gold is involved, America is
involved, too. By the end of the week
shades of the Bretton Woods meeting
and a cloud of deep concern had settled
over the U.S. President-elect Richard
Nixon was reported to be considering
the calling of a world monetary confer-
ence along the lines of the historic 1944
meeting. At that time, the U.S., holding
something like $U.5.25 billion in gold,
insisted on the supremacy of that metal
and rejected Keynes’ proposal for the
analogue of the current Special Draw-
ing Rights. Today the situation is
reversed. Today, the U.S. holds some
SU.S.IO billion in gold stocks, while
continental Europe can lay claim to at
least SU.S. 15 billion in official reserves
alone, and perhaps another SU.S.IO
billion in private hoards. Today, the
U.S. is the advocate of the demonetisa-
tion of gold and its replacement by
SDRs, while Europe, though not reject-
ing the idea of SDRs, is pouring
increasing scorn upon them—“it will
be many a long day before a wife will
greet with delight the husband who
brings her a necklace made from SDRs”
goes one typically unfunny Swiss joke.
It is the imbalance of their respec-
tive gold hoards which makes any
monetary upheaval in Europe a matter
of grave concern to the U.S. The possi-
bility that a string of devaluations there
could embroil sterling and eventually
the U.S. dollar cannot be ignored. And
provided the world’s monetary system
and trade did not collapse in the pro-
cess, such an event would bring,with it
a tremendous windfall for the European
gold-holders.
The idea behind Richard Nixon’s
consideration of basic reforms in the
international currency system centres
ostensibly on creating far greater flex-
ibility in foreign exchange rates so as
to permit financial markets to make
adjustments between currency values
without causing political crises. A per-
missible range of fluctuation of five
percent instead of the present one
percent is being suggested. Under such
a system the imbalance between the
mark and the franc might have been
corrected immediately by a simple
appreciation of the one and deprecia-
tion of the other and crisis avoided.
And yet if within this wider range one
currency were to rise from its floor to its
ceiling at the same time another was
reversing the process then the exchange
rate between the two would have in
fact changed by 20 percent, a change
which very few traders or bankers would
be prepared to tolerate. Greater flexi-
bility in foreign exchange rates means,
in fact, a greater lack of confidence in
international trade, which would thereby
suffer.
Other Nixon advisers who favor the
summoning of a world currency con-
ference advocate an increase in the price
of gold. They argue that a higher gold
price would increase the money value
of gold reserves held by governments
and central banks and ,so provide more
reserves to protect currency values in the
international money markets. But behind
the idea, too, could be the pragmatic
point of view that if a rise in the price
of gold can be brought about by crisis,
anyway, then the U.S. could emerge less
scathed by arranging such a happening
in the cooler climate of the conference
room. The U.S. might be able to
swallow its pride over Europe gaining
far more from such a rise than itself,
but that South Africa and the Soviet
Union would reap enormous benefits as
gold producers is a sensitive political
consideration that is going to stick in
many throats, not least Mr. Nixon’s.
But that the U.S. should make such
a smart turn-about in policy and even
start considering a rise in the price of
gold suggests that the possibility of it
happening through European crisis is
greater than at first suggested. For
General de Gaulle, who attempted to
precipitate such a rise earlier this year,
that must provide some small consola-
tion at least during his present troubles.
AUSTRALIA FAIR
HAPPY INDICATORS
WHILE EUROPE was stirring up an
economic storm for itself last week, a
string of optimistic indicators were
providing arms for the perennial Aus-
tralian optimism against any set of
troubles that may lie ahead.
During October, pressure on labor
resources eased, industrial production
in general surged ahead of last year’s
figures, balances outstanding of instal-
ment credit for retail sales showed the
biggest monthly increase ($17.3 mil-
General tie Gaulle. ..a hollow victory?
lion) for more than a year to $1289
million, and capital inflow managed a
sharp increase to an apparent $157 mil-
lion including $44 million from the
D-mark 200 million loan raised by
Federal Treasurer Mr. McMahon dur-
ing his recent visit to Germany
compared with a net capital inflow of
$266 million during the September
quarter and the record $2BB million
during the June quarter.
Following on the healthy inflow
figures and shrugging off any qualms
about crowing over other people’s mis-
fortunes, Mr. Arthur Goode, Mel-
bourne sharebroker and financier, fore-
saw that the flow of capital both for
portfolio and direct investment could
well be as great if not greater than that
last year provided “there be a con-
tinuance of the poor statistical position
of some major overseas currencies and
if there be also a continuance of sig-
nificant discoveries and of development
of minerals in Australia coupled with
good seasonal conditions and wool
prices.”
Whatever the outcome in Europe, it
seems likely that there will be an in-
creasing outflow of capital from Ger-
many to be competed for anyway, quite
apart from Mr. Nixon’s promise of
removing the restrictions on U.S. capi-
tal outflow.
But as the “poor statistical position”
of some European currencies worsened,
Mr. Goode’s prediction seemed to be-
come somewhat conditional on the
ability of Australia to withstand any
mild and limited bout of deflation
which might occur abroad. Indica-
tions were that the economy was well
enough placed to weather at least a
little pressure from the further revalua-
tion of the Australian dollar relative


to some of the other trading currencies.
That being the case, the great advan-
tage reaped in the field of capital in-
flow from the decision not to devalue
a year ago could be further and
unexpectedly reinforced.
MEN AND MATTERS
THE SUCCESS of its engineering for
the Courage Brewery plant at Broad-
meadows (Vic.) could give Mr.
Ambrose Congreve’s family firm, Hum-
phreys and Glasgow Ltd., entree to the
brewery industry in other countries.
Humphreys and Glasgow is particularly
delighted with what Courage has to say
of the job. The brewery went on steam
only hours late (and it was not their
fault) and the first taste of the brew
was precisely what Courage wanted,
which was some kind of miracle.
This U.K.-based, but international,
chemical engineering firm can offer the
continuous brewing process, which
means cheaper capital and operating
costs, to Russia, which is said to be
interested in building 120 breweries.
Already H and G has considerable
business behind the iron and bamboo
curtains. It recently finished two ethy-
lene plants for Russia. And two years
Joseph Bates
Ambrose Congreve
ago H and G was the first U.K. firm to
build a capital plant in Red China, a
£3 million ammonia plant at Liuchow.
The Chinese, being very exact people,
weighed individually esich of the 250,000
refractory bricks sent from England,
which fascinated the British. The
Chinese were equally fascinated that H
and G, which specified in the contract
it would not be responsible for corrosion,
did replace, free, equipment which
corroded quickly. Congreve thought the
£20,000 involved was a worthwhile
outlay for Chinese goodwill.
Congreve had personal experience of
China, for, in 1933 at the age of 27, he
went to Shanghai, responsible for
Unilever sales. At £l2OO a year tax-
free, and a car and servant thrown in,
he was never so well off in his life.
As a multi-millionaire, taxation now is
an obsessive problem with him, so much
so that he has had to exile himself to
his family seat at Mount Congreve, in
Waterford County, Ireland, to avoid the
absurdities of the British tax system. He
conducts the business by telephone,
supplemented by frequent visits from his
U.K. staff.
He and his wife (they have no
children) are joint owners of a business
he values at £3O million, which earns
a net profit of around £2 million.
Two years’ reading modern languages
at Cambridge was preparation for the
accountancy profession. After a year
with Price Waterhouse (his father put
up a £lOO premium), Congreve went
to Unilever, where he went the
rounds of the margarine and soap fac-
tories, and so to Shanghai, In 1955,
after nine years with Unilever, he
went over to Humphreys and Glasgow.
In Australia, H and G has current
contracts worth $4O million, and 500
people on the payroll, including tem-
porary staff on site. Although H and
G handled its first contract in Aus-
tralia about 1905 (for AGL, which is
a current client for a gas plant at
Mortlake), there has only been a
separate organisation here for about 12
years. So far there have been no losses.
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA, which,
even if it stops short of having its shares
listed, is 49 percent owned by Aus-
tralians, has also been making great
strides in replacing Americans in its
higher management echelons with Aus-
tralians who’ve served their apprentice-
ships in the aluminium game well under
American tutelage in the seven years
since Alcoa landed at Port Henry and
Kwinana. Like Ford, however, Alcoa
still keeps an American in the highest
saddle, whose incumbents it takes care
to give only a three-year ride before
sending them back to Pittsburgh. This
short ride has so far had happy results.
The first managing director to arrive
here in 1961, when Port Henry was
but a habitat of rabbits and flies whose
rule hardly betokened the emergence
of the thriving industrial complex
which is there today, was Mr. J. Colin
S,mith. He was charged with the task
of piloting the establishment stage.
When both Kwinana and Port Henry
works were in place and production in
full swing, Mr. Smith went home to an
honorable retirement after a job well
and swiftly done. In his place came
the marketing man, Mr. Allen C.
Sheldon.
Joseph C. Bates, the new managing
director, has been here before, having
been based at Perth for three years
during the war when serving in sub-
marines with the U.S. Navy. Well
within his term he should see the
capacity at Kwinana increased to four
times (800,000 tons alumina) its
original capacity, and that at Port
Henry’s smelter to 2\ times (90,000 tons
metal), as well as the new electric
power station at Anglesea firing. He’s a
mechanical engineering graduate from
the University of Southern California,-
with subsequent wide industrial experi-
ence. He was vice-president of a big
U.S. construction company and presi-
dent of a contracting and packaging
concern before joining Alcoa. Latterly
he’s been on the container side. J
WEST SIDE STORY
BIGGER THAN KWINANA
VIEWERS MIGHT have been excused
for thinking he’d got his towns mixed
up when Western Australia’s Industrial
Development Minister, Mr. Charles
Court, dropped into a recent television
interview a claim that a place called
Karratha would become the biggest
town in an industrial complex bigger
than Kwinana —• and all this within
ten years. Karratha is not a name
dreamed up for a new industrial satel-
lite for Perth, but an Aboriginal name
bottom) for a remote
spot within Nichol Bay on the north-
west coast, 1000 miles from the capital
city. What makes Mr. Court’s
remarkable forecast possible is that
Nichol Bay is between the Hamersley
Iron port of Dampier on the south
and Cape Lambert on the north.
Dampier is on the western side of the
Dampier Archipelago (the Legendre
oil well is being sunk on its tip) and
the western side of Nichol Bay makes
up the other side. Dampier is virtually
an island, reached by a causeway that
was the first project of Hamersley’s
iron-ore development. And this island
has become too small, because the com-
pany’s growth has outpaced even the
most optimistic forecasters even Mr.
Court, the most optimistic of them all.
Karratha, then, is to be a spillover
town for Dampier; the two towns are
to be eight miles apart, within commut-
ing distance of each other. Hamersley
is on the way to a development which
managing director Mr. Russel T. Madi-
gan maintains will be more important
than a second steel industry the
technological breakthrough of metal-
lising, which increases the iron content
of ore to the point where it becomes
a metal; now this new feed is being
promoted among steel - industry
decision-makers. The Hamersley outlay
linked up with this development will
approach $5OO million over the next
12 years, most of this spent between
the Hamersley Range and the coastline
centred on Karratha. At the other
end of Nichol Bay is Cape Lambert,
where both the Cliffs consortium and
the Hanwright group plan to ship out
their ore and pellets. The Cliffs
deal, swinging now for three years,
could be concluded in the coming
month a $l2OO million contract for
pellets and fines. The pellets would be
made at Cape Lambert, and shipped
along a loading facility more than a
mile. long. And part of the Cliffs deal
would entail establishment of a package
refinery, probably from Esso. It is this
development that excites the optimists.


MERCANTILE
CREDITS
LTD.
Incorporated in 1935
Paid up capital $8,000,000
INCOME
DEBENTURES
BYEARS
P.A
DEBENTURE STOCK
Short Term Rates also available
PREMIUM
DEBENTURES
8% p.a. plus premium of $5 per
$lOO invested.
e.g. Invest $l,OOO and receive $2O
interest each quarter plus repay-
ment of $1,050 at maturity date.
ACCUMULATION
DEBENTURES
Prospectuses and Forms
of Application are obtainable from:
• Any member of a recognised Stock
\ Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Represen-
tative Office, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
• Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
N.B. Applications for Debenture Stock will
proceed only on one of the Forms of Applica-
tion referred to in and attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
Head Office: Gold Fields House, 1 Alfred St.,
Sydney Cove, Sydney. 2 0556
447 Collins Street, Melbourne. 62 7364
381 Queen Street, Brisbane. 2 2181
329 King William Street, Adelaide. 51 4773
220 St. George's Terrace, Perth. 21 6266
31-33 London Circuit, Canberra. 49 6111
Speculator’s Diary
NO QUICK QUIDS CAN
ENTICE ME INTO
FIDDLING WITH GOLDS
WHILE THE WORLD worried about
its currency crisis, I spent my time
trying to balance my books. The end
of November brings the same sort of
neurosis to me as June 30 does to most
public companies, so much so that in
last week’s diary I said that I would
be presenting my annual report this
week. In fact, it will not be until next
week, because this diary covers the
week ending the Friday before publi-
cation. This time-lag is one reason I’ve
avoided stocks that were good specula-
tions in the currency crisis. For if I
bought some stock that clearly benefited
from some decision made over the week-
end some cynics might say that the
diary had been fiddled; and if I bought
a stock that subsequently collapsed I’d
look a damn fool. So I’ve kept out of
gold shares, even though there was a
quid to be made from them. But I have
to admit that it was no imposition.
Gold has never appealed to me as a
sensible medium for foreign exchange
in this day and age; I’m one of those
people who would much prefer to see
a system of international credits or a
new world currency completely taking
the place of gold.
Last week I was trumpeting about
the good appearance of the mining
market. But this week I am not put-
ting my money where my mouth is.
My portfolio is pretty heavily oriented
toward mining and oil stocks at the
moment and, if anything, I am reduc-
ing its dependence on them. This is
largely to prepare for next week’s
dividend declaration from my fund.
Nevertheless, I did a little buying.
National Consolidated appeals to me
very much following last week’s chair-
man’s address. Current prices around
$2.05 for this stock seem almost too
good to be true. This is only times
last year’s earnings, which is too small
a multiple for a company with- pros-
pects as good as National Consoli-
dated’s. The company seems certain
of having a record profit in the cur-
rent financial year and is looking
toward a steady pattern of growth in
sales and profits during the next five
years. The chairman said at last week’s
meeting that results in the first quarter
of the current financial year showed a
worthwhile increase over the previous
corresponding period and added “we
think that our prospects in the foresee-
able future are very encouraging.”
It is significant that the latest year’s
profit was despite devaluation of sterl-
ing and a rise in tax rates, both of
which combined to prevent the com-
pany scoring another record result.
Clearly, National Consolidated is not
too concerned about the threat of com-
petition from the British-owned Hazell
group, although the company’s results
obviously depend on a steady expansion
in the national economy. But on the
question of costs the group’s ability
to absorb cost increases in the past
“gives us grounds for thinking that we
will be able to do so in the years
ahead,” according to the chairman.
There seems very little downside risk
with this stock; according to the char-
tists, the downtrend that has been in
existence since 1964 now appears to
have been broken. To me, this stock
looks set for a rise.
This week’s sales were highly profit-
able, bringing in a net $596 despite
losing $135 on my Amalgamated
Petroleums and $75 on CRA. I was
reluctant to part with my Woodsides,
on which I made $477, as T think the
next well the company will drill off-
shore Western Australia will be full of
interest. But it may take a while to
get down to the levels that will push
the market along, and in . the mean-
time the stock could be a little
depressed by the pressure of the 1-for-l
new issue. If there is any sign of a
temporary weakening in Woodside, I’ll
be back in a flash.
My three other sales were all as a
result of my taking half measures; I
sold half my Concrete Industries shares
because I’m only half sure that the
company will not get a higher bid than
the inadequate one from Redlands (and
I wanted to make sure of my very
handy profit of $241 on half my hold-
ing); I had only bought Exoil because
I liked the market situation, so I’m
recovering all my costs of purchase by
selling half my holdings; and with
Genoa I want to keep half just in case
the offshore Western Australian boom
continues a little bit longer.
All this activity left kitty at $11,168,
a handy size for a nice distribution next
week.
BOUGHT
200 National
Consolidated $2.05 $194
SOLD
4000 Amalg. Pet. 33c $1293
50 CRA $19.20 $940
500 Woodside $1.95 $957
1000 Concrete Industries 84c $823
1000 Exoil, options 25c $245
1000 Genoa Oil, options 16c $156
Sh»r» Company Bought Coat Now
50 8.-H.P. 8 8 68 22 60 19 90
'5O B.H.P. 5 9.68 19.80 19 90
100 Mt. Isa 2 568 6 90 7 14
500 Oil Sea'ridh 17.7.68 1.12 .69
1500 Oi'l 'SeancJh 29.8 68 1 05 69
1000 O’iil Search 7 11.68 .57 .'69
4000 Associated C’tinenta'l 2 8 68 .35 .27
3000 lAiMlante Pet. 40c 2 8.68 .43 40
50 W.iM.iC. 8 8 68 12.70 10 80
50 W 'M.'C. 15 11.68 10.'50 10 80
100 B. H. South 14.8.68 6.40 4 60
25 B.H. South cons. .75 2 60
200 Ampol Exploration 5 9 68 4 05 3 15
200 Ampol Exploration 15 11.68 3.05 3.15
1000 Concrete Imd. 12.9 68 .57 .81
500 Int’nat'a'l Resistance 26.9.68 .33 .59
200 MdD'Onald Ind. 3 10 68 .98 .98
200 Pairymead 25.10 68 1.40 1 82
400 Amipol Petrol. 25 10 68 1.23 1.38
100 Metals E-xlpl. 25.10.68 5 40 5 90
200 Aust. G’tee Corp. 1.11.68 215 203
200 A.'O C. 7.11.68 1.20 1.30
1000 ExoHI ap-ts. 7 11 68 .12 .25
1000 Genoa opts. 7 11 68 .9 .16
1000 - Abrolhos 15.11.68 .28 .29,


mm,
m.
.
wm
l m
. .♦'
UK
wm
rs 9
■
k
.. . .
| &
SS 11..
I
:
i
jid
. m
if® Ji
>■
■ \ H:
The 3 worlds of Australia's BHP
BHP is Australia’s own great industrial enterprise, with operations in steel, mining, oil and gas.
On all three fronts the Company is pursuing a vigorous policy of expansion
and development. More minerals. More oil and gas. And more and better steels. This is not
unusual at BHP. For 85 years the Company has been active in developing
Australia for Australians. The pattern will continue, as BHP forges ahead to provide Australia’s
industrial leadership into the 21st Century.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED steel/mining/oil & GAS
BHP/522/1 O 7
Industrial leadership into the 21st Century,


THE WEEK'S TURNOVERS
i
SYDNEY |
MELBOURNE
|INDUST,RIAL| MINING |INDUSTRIAL| MINING
1 Sales
Value | Sales j Value 1 Sales 1 Value 1 Sales J Value
1 Vol.
$ | Vol. | J Vol. J • Vol. | $
1 1000
1000 1 1000 | 1000 | 1000 1 1000 1 1000 <| 1000
before
. 1 6507
10393 | 11657 | 6941 | 4141 1 6674 4163 6813
Week
to Friday
. | 9176
115008 ■! 12851 J 9632 j 5080 | 9490 '| 5822 110722
OVERSEAS INDEXES
| London
New York 1 Tokyo
I "Financial Times” ]
Dow Jones |D. Jones
| Inds. | Secs. | Gold |
Inds. | Rails | Avge.
Jan. 2
1968 . .
1 385.0 < 76.281 62.5 1
906.841 236.4411266.27
196i7-6€
high
i| 518.6 1 81.951 87.8 1
967.49] 274.4911851.49
1967-68
low . .
■1 310.3 | 74.18] 47.3 J
791.141 205.3111257.91
Month
ago .. .
1 476.3 i 75.01] 64.51
956.68' 268.63|1760 95
Week ago . . . .
,! 493.7 ■! 73.38] 71.6 |
965.881 271.83 1697.03
Latest
483.7 73.25 72.1 ■
967.06 272.46|1693.04
SHARE PRICES INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week i
ago
Friday
1 last
All ordinaries
547.25
563.71
193.26
198.65
50 leaders .
219.19
227.39
Banks
241.15
253.69
154.64
157.46
Other finances
734.79
749.86
103.93
105.31
Pastoral
280.37
284.62
140.46
142.35
Transport
586.45
599.57
111.07
113.74
Retail Merchants
419.53
420.65
117.71
117.47
Services
73.88
75.21
Foods
241.60
252.50
139.37
143.22
Textiles
217.87
214.50
. 109.62
111.12
Chemicals .
376.71 ;
392.34
89.28
93.88
Electricals . .
523.28
530.66
83.80
. 83.69
Paper ....
126.51
127.41
Building ....
883.01
876.91
110.18
118.25
Automotive
732.24
743.52
107.32
108.81
Fuel Power
255.63
251.91
Steel engineering
1302.58
1370.45
291.78
306.88
Non-ferrous
3145.77
3230.78
687.55
703.95
OIL
SUGAR
■
Week
ago
Friday
last
| Week
1 ago
1 Friday
1 last
Brisbane
Melbourne
264.36
252.11
268.14
277.95
123.12
124.51
BRIEFLY
The economy ' Despite the quite heavy deficit on
trading account, Australia’s overseas reserves rose by $54.5
million in October, their first advance since May, to
reach $1091.0 million; official transactions furnish the
principal explanation . . . October’s capital inflow
would be an apparent $157 million, well ahead of the
September quarter’s average rate.
Seasonally adjusted, registered unemployed went up slightly
from 61,675 to 61,901 in the October month, while
vacancies slipped from 37,944 to 36,130.
Industrial output moved vigorously forward in October,
only three out of 35 indicators declining from October,
1967, levels . . . Outstanding instalment credit for retail
sales,' seasonally adjusted, added $17.3 million to hit $1289.0
million for October, against a $7.1 million gain in
September and $6.1 million in August.
Trading bank deposits rose by $142.3 million to $5887.1
million in October, the highest ever for this particular
month.
The markets : Europe, Britain, and the United States
are thoroughly immersed in the currency troubles,
yet the only local spillover, so far, has been a measure of
perplexity on Australian share markets. As could
have been expected, there was a brief and hectic flirtation
with gold shares, which appeared to be cooling off
somewhat toward the close. Metals have become
quieter, oils rather excited, while industrials continue
their steady march forward.
Some golds managed to hold positive gains to
the end. Among these were Lake View and Star $4.60
(up 60 cents), Central Norseman $5.80 (40 cents),
Peko (for a medley of reasons) $lO.lO ($1.30), Emperor
$2.50 (25 cents). Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie retreated
20 cents to $1.90.
Investors took good hope when BHP climbed back
to $2O by a $1.05 rise. Western Mining added
35 cents to reach $ll.lO. King Island Scheelite went up
a further 70 cents to $17.40.
The Chancellor’s punishment struck London after normal
trading hours, but equities took another solid knock
in kerbside and inter-office dealings.
Wall Street read some hope into the Group of Ten
meetings, sending stocks up in active trading.
Companies: The shifting currency sands in Europe
seemed to lend even more solidity to some Australian
miners . . . Western Mining certainly came out with
a bright package new nickel discoveries, a
40 percent fillip to proven reserves, a 50 percent lift
in planned production, a new mine at Kambalda,
and the intention to obtain another $3O million by bank
overdraft and loans ... A new contract, worth
$265 million, has been won by Mount Newman from
the Japanese steelmakers; another 37.5 million
tons of lump iron ore and fines will be delivered in a ten-
year period starting 1971 and sending Newman’s
shipments to 13.5 million tons a year by 1975 . . . One
of the partners in Gladstone Alumina, the French
Pechiney, may build an aluminium smelter at Gladstone
. . . Surface drilling south of the Crown Reef
workings has raised hopes of another rich goldmine for
Central Norseman . . . But Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s
hopes are low unless the price of gold rises . . .
The attempt to catch King Island Scheelite continues,
with Consolidated Gold Fields offering a full cash
alternative and favorable consideration for more than 50
percent of each holding; meanwhile Peko’s (second)
higher bid has been given the dignity of formal
notice . . . An “aide memoire of understanding”
indicates a price of $2.19 a barrel for Esso-BHP’s
Bass Strait Oil.
Aspros are floating in the name of Nicholas Australia
with 50-cent shares at a 50 percent premium,
giving a 4 percent dividend yield and 5.3 percent earnings
yield; the public issue comprises 1,500,000 shares
and the vendors’ issue (fully paid) 12,865,995 shares . . .
Drug Houses of Australia doesn’t feel inclined to
recommend Slater Walker’s share bid, yet might be better
disposed toward a cash offer; Slater’s market buying
has given it about 25 percent of Drugs . . .
The offer for Deposit and Investment by Washington
H. Soul is now unconditional after a more than
51 percent acceptance.
A calm but significant merger between portions of
G. E. Crane and the British-controlled Metal Manufactures
will make Austral Bronze Crane Copper Pty. the
largest producer of copper and bronze extrusions in
Australia . . . The active construction group Mainline
Corporation proposes to give the public a 43f
percent interest at a high premium . . . Melbourne’s
Consolidated Quarries is receiving approaches via its
large shareholders not unconnected with its
expressed plans to make its own cement in eastern and
southern States . . . Adelaide Cement is actually to
build a new plant at Newcastle in 1969.
None of the forecast improvement came to heavy
engineer and appliance maker A. G. Healing, which
instead had to suffer a record $1,911,797 loss.
Low world fertiliser prices have forced Amalgamated
Chemicals, a subsidiary of Continental Oil,
of U.S.A., to drop its plans to make fertiliser in Australia
. . . Key members of the Altona (Vic.) complex
Altona Petrochemical and Union Carbide Australia, are
embarking on major expansion to handle
by-products from Bass Strait oil and gas.
STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORP. SHARES
•Liatest
SYD-NCY %
average dividend 5.68
MiEUBOiU'RiNiE
dividend' 4.11
earnings 6.98
Ni0W YOlRiK ’(S & P)
dividend 3.72
earnings 4.67
LO NIDON (iF.T.)
dividend 2.78
earmings 5.55
C'WEALTH BONDS
' Week
before <Fni.
% %
Short 4.66 4.60
M edi u m 4.84 4.91
Uong 5.00 5.00


SPERRY RAI\D
Wk't&M *' -V ! /» . ■ WMtAiMffi
TPa *
mm
?•: . ;y
Hhi s
.
■
: -;v
? ,
■«
:.
mmmmmmm
■wT * . *'
/ f :
||:; :: «vil®
flill«pSSMi
fe
••••>:
■■■■l
SS 1111111 Bllli i
You have a typewriter.
So that’s where your link system
With the force of change growing
stronger in today's fast-moving
business world, it is no longer
possible to "make do" with un-
planned office equipment. That's
why, when we sell you a type-
writer we think of it as a link in a
system planned to give your partic-
ular business a dramatic increase
in efficiency and profitability.
For instance, our experts can
after a fact-finding survey plan
you a Link-System in which the
function of your Remington type-
writer is linked to the function of a
duplicator linked to your filing and
your mailing.
Get the idea? Whatever Link-
System you may need, we also
guarantee without cost to you, to
train your staff EDP people
included to efficiently operate
that Link-System. Your inquiry
will be given our experts' complete
concentration. And security. All
obligation-free, of course.
REMINGTON 25 ELECTRIC:
World’s most efficient type-
writer, featuring exclusive
"Ultratouch”.
REMINGTON REX ROTARY
SPIRIT DUPLICATOR:
Runs off 80 copies
per minute.
REMINGTON ADDRESSER:
PRINTER: Eliminates costly
repetitive writing and
checking.
REMINGTON
SAFETIFILE:
Certified protection
from deterioration.
JL
nr
link-system planning by
REMINGTON RAI\D
World's largest Link-System Planners.
Sydney 2-0925 • Melbourne 69-0660 • Brisbane 5-4651 • Adelaide 8-4631 • Launceston 2-2358 • Hobart 2-2886 • Canberra 4-0885 • Perth 23-2281
RRSB7


THE LAND
There’s not even a blueprint
for rural industry
More mechanisation on farms, but no overall plan
THE APPEALING NOTION that
Australia’s rural industries are going
through h period of reconstruction from
which they will emerge in stronger
competitive health to sell more effec-
tively in world markets and also hold
their heads higher in the increasingly
manufacturing - oriented economy
doesn’t quite fit the facts. Yet this was
the Committee for Economic Develop-
ment of Australia’s interpretation of
the present “backs to the wall” efforts
of the rural industries to stop the
deterioration in their position and
prospects when talking to the French
Economic Mission in Melbourne
recently. It was a rather muted plea
to the French, who have enough
economic troubles of their own at the
moment, to be patient with us until the
reconstruction is completed. Making
such a plea was itself a mystery. We
have come bang up against French
wheat recently in our efforts to expand
our sales of wheat to Japan, where
France is trying to sell some of its
current Surplus. Again, in the event of
Britain getting into the Common
Market, exports of agricultural
products from France could be
expected to play the very devil with
our share of the U.K. market, especi-
ally for wheat.
It would have been much more use-
ful to tell the French visitors that our
rural industries, while still being the
backbone of our balance of payments,
are between the devil (the tariff) and
the deep blue seas (over which they
have to export most of their output),
and that, far from there being any over-
all plan to get them out of their pre-
dicament, there isn’t even a blueprint
of one. The exception is the rationalisa-
tion scheme for the dairy industry,
ultimately to cost $25 million, which
the Minister of Primary Industry has
still to get off the ground, that is, get
the agreement of the States, which will
have to do most of the work in imple-
menting it. Only $1 million has been
budgeted for in the current year, but
Mr. Anthony said in the censure debate
last week that things are now moving
more rapidly and he expects the States
to come to the party very soon.
This is not to say, of course, that the
Federal Government has been
unsympathetic to rural industry prob-
lems or has been as cheeseparing in
its financial assistance to it as many in
the industry make out. Mr. Anthony
was at pains in the censure debate to
spell out the long list of handouts to
it in recent times, including more than
$lOO million for drought relief, for
instance, and the fact that even under
the new Wheat Stabilisation Agreement
wheatgrowers would be $4OO million
better off as a result of the Govern-
ment’s guarantees for the next five years
than they were during the past five.
Then there were the big amounts being
spent on water conservation, mainly in
the farmers’ interest, which the Minister
for National Development detailed at
length. But the point is that all this is
piecemeal stuff. There’s no overall plan
and there should be one.
The whole face of rural industry and
its place in the economy have been
changing rapidly. But this has been
happening as a spontaneous evolution
rather than through designed recon-
struction aimed to get the bits and
pieces into better shape and co-ordinate
them into a more useful and viable
complex to serve our national purposes
better. Looked at in its broadest, the
essence of the evolution is that rural
production and productivity have
gained enormously under the influence
of science, research, extension services,
and mechanisation. Along with this, the
rural population has been running
down and national indifference has per-
vaded the economic balance sheet.
If the French want to know what
Australian farms will look like in
twenty-five years’ time, the most certain
thing would be that fewer people will
be running them and that more
sophisticated machines will proliferate.
This trend has long been in full swing.
Since the war, the percentage of the
Australian population engaged in rural
industries has declined from 16.7 to 9
percent. The drift of people away from
rural holdings goes on unabated. The
number of people (all ages) per-
manently resident on rural holdings has
been dropping by about 5000 a year
over the past decade, so that fewer than
one million people (around 980,000, or
fewer than one in every twelve of the
population) now live on Australian
farms.
Whereas in the 19505, thanks to a
rising number of temporary employees,
the numbers of males engaged on
rural holdings was increasing and got
up to about 450,000 by the end of the
decade, in the 1960 s the number of
permanents and temporaries both fell
away until, at the latest count, only
380,000 remained. This drop of 70,000
in the 1960 s is staggering. But, coupled
with the sharp fall in the number of
women engaged in farmwork, the
drift away from farmwork becomes
even more pronounced (there is
roughly one woman employed for
every eight to nine males on rural
holdings in Australia).
The other side of the picture is
shown in the figures for agricultural
machinery, which reveal the startling
way mechanisation is taking over on
Australian farms. To take but one
example, the number of tractors used
on rural holdings in Australia has
risen from 235,000 to well over 300,000
and is heading rapidly toward 350,000.
Forecasting the level of farm invest-
ment is becoming increasingly difficult,
partly because of the narrowing of
profit margins over a wide area of
rural industry, but given good seasons
the drive toward more mechanisation
and displacement of costly farm labor
(it is becoming increasingly so, as well
as hard to get) stands to accelerate.
On the other hand, it is highly likely
that farmers will be driven by rising
costs to make much more intensive
use of machinery by various means,
such as sharing their equipment with
neighbors or, say, by more co-operate
farming.
AGRISEARCH
FIGHTING VIRUSES
THE SHOCK WAVES of last
autumn’s outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease in Britain have now hit our
shores. Dr. A. E. Pierce, Chief of the
CSIRO’s Division of Animal Health,
has appealed for $9 million to construct
a maximum security laboratory in
which the exotic virus diseases of live-
stock can be studied. He claims that
such a laboratory, although costly to
run, would provide “cheap insurance”


HOW TO PROFIT
FROM OPTIONS
If a share you are interested in
seems due for a rise then a Call
Option is the way to take advan-
tage of this situation. For a limited
outlay, that you know in advance,
you are in a position to profit from
your stand in the market. If you
are wrong and the share does not
rise as expected, or even falls in
value, you are not committed to
buy the share—you merely take no
further action. An Option is an
option not an agreement to
buy stock. This point and many
others are explained in our free,
educational brochure that’s yours
for the asking. Just call in, •
or use the coupon below.
KHH
MONTGOMERY,
HUGHES PTY., LTD.
324 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE: 26 1831
18 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, b 3-7020
Stock and Share Options
A member of Option Brokers Association
Please send me a free brochure on
Options
Name
Address
819
We’re famous ]
for our
restaurants -
Why not stay
for breakfast?
There’s no better way to start a
day in Melbourne. A big friendly
breakfast prepared by the same
chefs that have made our Rib Room,
Harlequin Room and
Persian Room restaurants famous
the world over.
RESS ORIENTAL
HOTEL© MELBOURNE
The hotel at the Paris end of
Collins St., Phone Melbourne 63 6031,
Sydney 27 4601, or Travel Agent
325 273/68
for our immensely valuable flocks and
herds. Speaking to the CSIRO’s
Advisory Council, which met recently
in Sydney, Dr. Pierce pointed out that
the world’s livestock industries are
racked with 22 serious diseases, most
of them caused by viruses occurring in
a multitude of strains. Thus, there are
seven virulent forms of the foot-and-
mouth virus and no less than 19 of
the blue-tongue virus. This variance
complicates identification and the pro-
duction of appropriate vaccines and,
according to Dr. Pierce, makes the
whole field of combating outbreaks
difficult without the facilities of a
special laboratory.
Dr. Pierce holds the view that good
luck almost as much as good manage-
ment has kept most of these virus
diseases out of Australia so far. The
risk that the quarantine barrier will be
broken is increasing every year with
increasing sea and air traffic and trade.
Moreover, the ships and planes calling
here are coming from a wider variety
of foreign ports than ever before.
Dangerous viruses could be brought
into this country by the contaminated
clothes and footwear of the passengers,
by the garbage dumped from the ships
and planes while they are standing at
their terminals, and by the importation
of animal products, including packing
materials. Apart from these hazards it
is now realised that migratory birds
and insects pose a threat.
Dr. Pierce reminded the Council
forebodingly that we have already had
several brushes with some of the fear-
some viruses—foot and mouth in 1872,
rinderpest in 1926, Newcastle, disease
in 1930 and again in 1932, and swine
fever in 1961. Fortunately, each of
these outbreaks was quickly recognised
and stamped out by slaughter, and
quarantine measures rigorously applied.
Our export trade in animal products
is worth about $lOOO million annually,
and Dr. Pierce sent a further chilling-
shudder through us by mentioning that
our precious meat-trade agreements
with America and Japan would be
repudiated immediately foot-and-mouth
disease, for instance, gained a hold
here. Meat sales to these countries
earned $2OO million during the last
financial year. Referring to Britain’s
recent disastrous encounter with foot
and mouth, he quoted the National
Farmers’ Union of Great Britain as
estimating that the cost of controlling
the outbreak was $330 million. Our
capacity to cope with a similar occur-
rence here may be gauged from the
fact that Britain has 7700 vets for less
than 40 million foot - and - mouth
susceptible animals whereas we have
only 1400 vets for nearly 200 million
such animals, not counting the native
fauna whose susceptibility is unknown.
All this seems to add up to a purse-
touching case, but it is to be hoped that
the Advisory Council considers certain
other aspects before espousing Dr.
Pierce’s proposal. Earlier this year we
noted that this Council took a broad
view when informed of the danger of
the inland becoming desert as a result
of over-grazing and mismanagement.
On that occasion it recognised that
many diverse interests were involved,
and supported an integrative plan to
meet the threat. Scientists representing
a wide range of specialists were invited
to participate in the Rangelands
Research Program. The virus disease
problem could also be tackled on a
wide front. Viruses, sometimes the
self-same ones that attack animals, also
sicken humans. And plants are sus-
ceptible to viruses. Therefore, if we
must have some place for virologists
to play about in, why not build an
Institute of Virology which can be
shared by medical-, veterinary-, and
plant-virus specialists. The medical
people already have a great deal of
research experience with dangerous
viruses, and an undoubted fund-raising
skill.
But is this the way to combat poten-
tial invasions of virus diseases and is
Dr. Pierce taking fright too readily?
The British have been conducting
exhaustive inquiries into the origins
and spread of their outbreak. So far
they have failed to discover the source
of the initial infection. They have
found that it was spread by airborne
agencies, though possibly some pig-
geries were infected by contaminated
milk. No evidence has been found
to suggest that the infection was con-
veyed by persons, vehicles, feeding-
stuffs or other materials, except in the
possible case of some piggeries. Almost
all the outbreaks were first recognised
and reported by laymen. Outbreaks
among sheep were relatively few and
none of the deer in the area became
infected. The total area over which
the disease spread was less than 50
square miles. The suppression cam-
paign involved the use of only about
50 veterinarians. It depended solely on
quarantine and the slaughter of in-
contact animals. The main difficulties
encountered were in tracing the move-
ment of stock and vehicles and in
deploying heavy machinery for burying
the carcasses.
A virus research laboratory is no
insurance. The British themselves have
one of the world’s best. It cannot
forestall an outbreak. It might pos-
sibly be of some assistance in chasing
the bolting horse that has left the open
stable. The same swift planes that could
just conceivably bring a disease here
can carry away to Britain or elsewhere
specimens for diagnosis, and the answer
can be supplied virtually as quickly as
could be got from our own special
facilities. Control by means of vaccina-
tion is impractical in Australia. It is
all very well to talk about maximum
security laboratories, but to make these
places utterly secure is another matter,
as the recent calamity in Utah attests.
For the time being our existing
defence policy should suffice. This is
not to say it should not be strength-
ened. The Western Australian Depart-
ment of Agriculture is already doing so
by instructing farmers about what to
look for and how to act when the
time comes.


INVESTMENT
The Markets
CAPITAL INFLOW WILL
BE AIDED BY
DE GAULLE'S DECISION
MINING • SECURITY ANALYSIS • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS • THE MARKETS • OIL TABLE
OUT OF THE CHAOTIC inter-
national monetary scene comes hope
for Australia’s share and commodity
markets. First, from de Gaulle’s prob-
ably short-lived determination to hold
the franc against the dollar (and mark),
there will be reluctance of international
capital to go into France and other
European countries, namely Italy and
Benelux.
So, Australia offers a haven for inves-
tible surpluses. This appears likely to
apply more to the United States than
to European capital itself, although no
doubt more German funds can be
attracted at an official level into Aus-
tralia. The President-elect of the United
States has said that international invest-
ment of the U.S. dollar will be stepped
up. Australia offers a better “bank” for
the investment of those funds than does
the over-valued French currency.
A re-entry of U.S. funds into Aus-
tralia—no matter the form—will pro-
vide a base for an improvement of
liquidity and a consequent improvement
in share-buying inquiry on Australian
Stock Exchanges. Against that, there
is the new round of restrictions in the
United Kingdom which, doubtless, will
influence the remarkable investment
flow out to Australia from that country.
Granted that the key to the future
course of Australian markets (and the
economy) lies in capital inflow, the
chaos in Europe may well prove a sav-
ing grace to what might well have been
a grave drying-up of funds destined
for Australia.
The French decision has little direct
influence in Australia. No more francs
for investment here has to be measured
against the fact that French investment
has been rather minimal, anyhow.
While some will regard it as a short-
lived fight to save the franc, the ques-
tion of restoration of confidence in
French and other European currencies
(including sterling) leaves Australia’s
capital-attraction potential as good as it
has ever been.
DRUG HOUSES
TWO-PRONGED BATTLE
IT IS TERRIBLY frustrating, one
imagines, to be on the receiving end
of an unwanted takeover these days, for
most offers are combining market opera-
tions with appeals to shareholders at
the same time. Indeed, while the battle
with the recipient board takes place,
the time is made available for the raider
to buy heavily on the share market.
So, Slater Walker Securities (Aus-
tralia) Ltd. makes its play to acquire
the Drug Houses of Australia group.
Operation DHA began with Slater
Walker picking up shares on the market
at prices ranging from $1.30' to $2.
After it acquired about percent of
the capital, becoming the largest share-
holder by so doing, Slater made a
formal bid to acquire the shares it did
not own. The bid was one Slater Walker
$1 ordinary share (then worth $6.40
each) plus $5 in an 8 percent deben-
ture in Slater Walker for every five
DHA shares. At the time, that was
worth $2.28 for each DHA share. The
board of directors of DHA almost
rejected bid, but delayed any
decision until auditors could have a
look at Slater Walker to evaluate the
intrinsic worth of the shares contained
in the deal. The delay may prove tell-
ing to the ultimate result.
Slater Walker, taking advantage in a
loophole in the takeover rules, has
been buying all shares in DHA offered
on the floor of the Exchange—at prices
up to $2.40 a DHA share. The ethics
of offering higher prices on the floor
of the Exchange than is implied in the
takeover is not questioned in the Com-
panies Act. *
By the time (December 3) that Slater
enters its formal bid, it is likely to hold
30 percent of the DHA capital and
will require only two-sevenths of the
“outside” capital to rout the DHA
board, no matter what their response
in the ultimate is to the bid.
It goes without saying that DHA
shareholders have lost patience with
the disappointing performance of their
company in recent years; Slater Walker
would not have been able to pick up
the holding it has done if that was not
the case.
THE CHARTIST SAYS: PETERSVILLE is currently an interesting
technical situation on both a trendline basis and volume study. The past history
on the chart shows that it has not been a rewarding investment on a long-term
basis, particularly for those investors who bought near the top during 1960 to 1963.
Only those who did not ignore the break of trendlines would not have shown
considerable erosion of capital. The recent market action has confirmed an uptrend
on high volume. A short-term target of 60c is indicated with the further move to
approximately 80c and a final objective of close to $1.20 would he possible from
the base consolidation. Last sale price on 21/11/68 —49c.
PICKING GOLDS
TESTS STILL TO COME
THE FRENCH FRANC crisis has
given speculators in gold shares another
opportunity to stretch their limbs,
though the betting was rather restrained
and suggested they were merely hav-
ing a welcome training run for a real
track test still to come. In any case,
so many of the gold counters have been
tainted by nickel aspirations that it’s
not so easy as it used to be among
Australian gold mines (it is plain sail-
ing in South Africa) to find an “attrac-
tive” marginal gold proposition work-
ing low-grade ore that doesn’t to some
extent discount a future nickel find
on its leases —that is, one which would
stand faithfully to reflect the straight-
out impact of a rise in the price of
gold on its position, at any rate in
terms of price-earnings ratios.
Life in this camp can also be trying
on other counts. For example, a share-
holder seemed a bit angry at the
Western Mining meeting last week that
the play in these gold-cum-nickel shares
can be prejudiced when the companies
concerned are controlled by a big nickel
parent, such as Western Mining’s
Central Norseman and Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie are. In such cases the
nickel endeavor of the parent stand
to take precedence over the explora-
tion activities of the others some-
thing which Sir Lindesay Clark stoutly
denied was happening in Western Min-
ing’s case, even if those with shares in
GMK and Central Norseman and with-


Carte d’Or
- a “true”
Riesling.
eg
! > YAJ.UMBA
*
kMe bZ/bi
HIES LIN'S
CHARACTERISTICS
OF THE
RIESLING GRAPE
Often referred to as Rhine
Riesling to distinguish it
from Semilion and other
varieties. A small round
greenish-yellow grape turning
to gold on the sunny side.
Moderate yield, ripens early,
soft and juicy with a tough,
translucent skin. The leaf is
medium size and round with
blunt teeth and three lobes,
rarely five. Rhine Riesling
is distinctive in having
small, tight, cylindrical
bunches with short stalks
and spotted grapes. Usually
winged or shouldered and held
' Rightly to the cane.
Yalumba Carte d’Or is a true-to-
type delicate dry white produced
from selected Rhine Riesling
grapes grown on the gentle slopes
of the Angaston, Eden Valley and
Springton districts of the
Barossa Valley. Bottled early in
the vintage year, usually August/
September, then allowed to mellow
in the century-old cellars of
Yalumba. A consistent prize
winner which, we feel sure, will
have winning ways with you'
and your friends.
yalumba
CARTE D’OR
RIESLING
Like a good ‘dry red'?
Then ask for Yalumba Galway Vintage Claret.
Vintaged by: S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., ANGASTON, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 5353.
SSO22
out any in WMC get the impression
that it is and are wondering when their
turn is to come.
But, quite apart from possible nickel
complications, the gold potential can
be difficult to identify in traditionally
gold-oriented concerns like WMC and
the likes of Peko-Wallsend, who’ve got
so many other irons in the fire and look
like getting more. In such companies
the exercise of discounting gold pros-
pects is almost as complicated doing it
for steel in BHP these days.
Last week’s annual meetings of
Central Norseman and GMK were no
more hopeful on the outlook for
profitability of gold mining than that
of Lake View and Star last month. At
the latter, the chairman, Mr. Sidney
Segal, elaborated a catalogue of woes
which added up to expectation of a
10 to 15 percent drop in profits
in the current year, despite the fact that
from July the company has been able
to retain 25 percent of the proceeds of
premium sales instead of having the lot
offset by deductions from the assistance
obtained from the Treasury under the
Gold Industry Assistance Act. The
curse of the industry in W.A. just now
is labor scarcity coupled with high and
rising labor costs (the LV and S chair-
man put in a plea to the W.A. Mines
Minister to allow weekend shifts as a
short cut through the labor problems).
He also intimated the company had a
few other ideas to help lower costs over
the longer term. With head grades
likely to be lower this year, the situa-
tion is not very hopeful on the gold
side for this company, that is, failing a
big rise in the price of gold (the cur-
rent higher free market price will cer-
tainly help a bit). What a pity Lake
View and Star’s negotiations with Great
Boulder, its neighbor on the Golden
Mile, to bring about an amalgamation
or at least a rationalisation of their
two gold-producing operations came to
nought. That would have helped the
costs position of the two mines no
end.
The costs situation is not better at
Central Norseman and GMK, where
costs per ton milled rose from $12.28
to $12.73 and from $6.55 to $6.83 res-
pectively last year. On top of that, the
yields per ton were down at both
mines. This adverse combination pro-
duced a drop from $557,405 to only
$313,662 in operating profit at GMK,
but thanks to an (unexplained) higher
revenue per ton at Central Norseman
(which works a much higher grade of
ore) operating profits there showed a
small increase. As proceeds from
premium sales all went in the offset
against Government assistance last year,
the higher revenue per ton possibly
derived from the reduced development
footage (and expenditure) on the year
at Central Norseman, where recent
development, however, has been most
promising. Sir Lindesay said that two
of the seven holes drilled this year had
struck exceptionally high values over
widths from 42 to 53 inches. He hinted


4
0
i
i
Jr Jan. 2
w Aloha Cruise \
Iberia from Sydney to Melbourne.^
Auckland. Suva. Pago Pago. Hilo.
Honolulu. Suva. Lautoka. Noumea, a
Wellington. Sydney. J
\
Special entertainment, Bill and Boyd,
the Ambassador Trio, Kodak lectures.
Fares from $498 Tourist;
$770 First Class.
i
/
■
Ask about travel to and from Sydney.
Book right away. See your P & O Travel Agent or P&O.
YOUR WILL!
Do not delay making a Will or revising it if it is not of
recent date.
The selection of an Executor and Trustee is most im-
portant; the responsibilities not always being welcomed
by a relative or friend. Wi'nchcombe Carson Trustee Co.
Ltd. will act as your Executor and Trustee —and also in
place of those already acting—the same specialised,
personal attention being given to all business irrespec-
tive of its nature or size. You are under no obligation
when you phone, call or mail the coupon below.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON
TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
48 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 2-0552.
Associate Companies:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Company
(Canberra) Ltd.
Winchcombe Carson Executors & Agency
(Queensland) Pty. Ltd.
TBL3O/11
Post this coupon for free brochure to:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Co. Ltd.
48 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Please forward me your free brochure.
NAME ;
ADDRESS
that after further drilling the prospect
of a rich new mine could be opened up.
As for GMK, he had poor news for
shareholders in that a dividend would
have to wait until a loan of $702,000
from WMC had been paid off (it looks
as if this could take more than two
years at last year’s rate of earnings).
Against this, the rise in output at Mt.
Charlotte is encouraging and the ulti-
mate four-weekly rate from that sector
has now been revised to 50,000 tons
(at present it is 45,000). As a post-
script Sir Lindesay added that unless
there was a rise in the price of gold
it may not be profitable to extract part
of the orebody at GMK. On the
other hand, given a lofty lift in the
gold price, profits stand to increase very
sharply from this low grader. It is
definitely one for speculators looking
for such a lift and they should now be
going in before most others, even at
around $2.00 a share.
NICHOLAS AUSTRALIA
DISSOLVED IN WATER?
IT IS ALL TO the good when big
proprietaries like Nicholas Australia
join the listed public-company ranks,
but the measure of goodness from the
public’s viewpoint is greatly reduced
when only 10 percent of the equity is
offered for public subscription and the
rest left with the vendors (in this case
mostly the Nicholas family and associ-
ates). It further dilutes the advantage
to the public when the capital is so
heavily watered as it has been for this
float. By putting it at $14.4 million in
$1 shares on the latest bumper profit
figures (1967-68), which show an
increase of close on 60 percent on the
previous result, the watering is such
that earnings come out at less than 8
percent and net tangible assets average
out at only 43 cents per $1 share (to
be issued at a 50 percent premium).
Of course, none of the lucky clients
of the underwriter (AUC) and the
issue’s broker, Davies and Dalziel of
the Melbourne Exchange, will complain
at the 50 percent premium for the
privilege of getting on the ground
floor. This very small tail will doubt-
less wag the Nicholas animal in its
public guise to a market capitalisation
out of all proportion to the net worth
of the enterprise as it stands and for
a considerable time in the future. The
shares are highly unlikely to attract
much stag selling. Going into firm
hands (300,000 to institutions, for in-
stance), the shares could well acquire
a scarcity value in the market despite
the meagre earnings yield (5.3 percent)
they show on the issue price of $1.50.
A precise annual rate of dividend is
forecast in the prospectus, but assuming
on the basis of the 3 percent to be
paid next October and the promise
of half-yearly payments thereafter that
in the first instance it will be 6 percent


m
Graduates are
well rewarded at
the National Bank
You're looking for position, responsibility, and a
salary to match ... in an organization where your
qualifications really mean something. Think about a
career in banking with the National. The bank believes
that much of its future leadership will come from men
of advanced educational levels both university
graduates and graduates of advanced colleges of
education.
As a graduate entering the National Bank you can
expect an accelerated promotion to executive ranks...
in one of several specialised fields, or in top-level
general administration. You'll benefit from the Bank's
specially planned training programmes. And there are
opportunities for post-graduate education in Aus-
tralia or abroad, and chances to serve abroad.
Find out more by reading the National's brochure
"Graduate Careers in Banking". Write for a copy to:
The Staff Development Manager, The National Bank
of Australasia Limited, 271-285 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria, 3001. Tel.: 63 0471.
National Bank
3925/82/68
the dividend yield at the issue price
would be only 4 percent. There are far
too many examples in the market, such
as CRA, of companies whose share
price has been unduly inflated largely
because of the small proportion of their
equity being in public hands. The sug-
gestion that a minimum of 25 percent
of a company’s shares should be held
by the public is well worth considera-
tion.
DIRECT ACCEPTANCE
A SUPERIOR CASE?
SECURITY ANALYST’S examination
of Trade Credits Ltd. (Bulletin, Nov.
16), which ranked the company above
14 others in the finance group in
respect of profit for ordinary share-
holders related to shareholders’ funds,
of pre-tax profit to total assets, and of
profit for ordinary shareholders to out-
standings, brought a rejoinder from the
new board of Direct Acceptance Cor-
poration Ltd.
Tjuringa Securities and the rest of
the Ipec group obtained control of
DAC after a first come-first served bid
in April-May, 1968, and not without a
legal battle with Mr. Noel Galland of
First Western Corporation Ltd. The
new chairman (Mr. Shann Turnbull)
did some investigation of the whole
finance industry before arriving at the
conclusion that DAC afforded the
greatest opportunity for escalation
among financiers. DAC had a better
gearing than Deposit and Investment,
for instance, the 51 cents paid per
share for control allowed purchase of
assets at a discount, and the share-
holders’ funds were small so that the
task of gearing up would not be too
difficult.
In the three years to July, 1967,
DAC’s business volume and loan funds
had more or less halved, and so had
the share price. The new interests con-
trolling DAC concluded that the com-
pany was in good condition, with the
exception of its lowly geared share-
holders’ funds. Therein lay the remedy
for DAC ills: to step up the gearing,
the ratio between loan funds and share-
holders’ funds. The new controllers
saw that the leading financiers had
borrowed funds of about five times
shareholders’ funds, whereas DAC had
total liabilities of only 1.3 times share-
holders’ funds.
And they estimated that DAC turned
over its funds more quickly and profit-
ably than any other financier. If the
company could maintain its present
profitability on total funds employed of
10 percent, and assuming tax at 45 per-
cent and interest cost of 7 percent, the
company could earn 18.6 percent on
ordinary capital if it could improve
gearing to five times in line with the
leaders. (It was also calculated that the
company would need to increase borrow-
ings by S3J million in relation to present


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM
6 YEARS
PER ANNUM
8 AND 10 YEARS
7z
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS
6h
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
6h
PER ANNUM
12 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM
6 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on
the printed form referred to in and attached to the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms of application should be obtained
from:
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey, (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN DIVORCE. TO:
PATRICK JAMES COLLINS. TAKE
NOTICE that JUDITH ANN COLLINS
has filed Petition Number 4636 of 1968,
for divorce on the ground of Separation
and seeking Orders in respect to
custody, maintenance, and costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street. Sydney, on or before the
Thirtieth day of December, 1968. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Messrs. G. M.
STAFFORD & OSBORNE, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
WILSON & CO.
ROBERT MONTEITH WILSON
JOHN HENRY MONTEITH WILSON
DAVID CHARLES BOWLY
(Members Brisbane Stock Exchange)
344 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “Wilshare,” Brisbane
Phone: 31-1404 Postal: G.P.O. Box 669
Australian
HOME
EVERY MONTH Ssc ' “
capital to permit a 1 percent increase
in the present dividend rate of 7
percent.)
Of course, it’s a tall order to hoist
liabilities quickly from $4.3 million to
$16.4 million, but directors have already
obtained, privately, new deposits of
short-term funds and are believed to be
negotiating the takeover of another
finance business for a consideration of
notes which automatically improves the
gearing. If it can show profit improve-
ment in the next half or full year, the
company could be in a position to make
a public issue of debentures and notes
in 1969.
DAC’s chairman made some compari-
sons with the average of five listed
leaders, whereby he attempts to show
DAC’s superiority. But if a company is
the subject of a first come-first served
offer, it can hardly be ranked wich the
bank-affiliated financiers.
Behind the
balance sheets
J. GADSDEN STEPS
OUT BRAVELY
INTO ALUMINIUM
SO LONG AS SYDNEY’S garbage
collectors lose the battle with the tax-
man about their traditional perks of
bottle money, cans (and non-returnable
stubbies, and perhaps eventually plastic
bottles which disintegrate a couple of
months after the contents are drunk)
must be in great demand. So, although
the Christmas reveller suffers, with .a
shortage of both canned and bottled
beer because the brewers cannot make
up the gap left by non-collection of
reused bottles, an immediate bene-
ficiary is J. Gadsden Australia Ltd.,
which, to use a director’s Australian
Rules term, has not had the ball lately
but should make a better score this
year.
In fact, its profits have been very
much marking time these past few
years, whereas its rival, Containers Ltd.,
has shown progressive profit improve-
ment, in the latest year surpassing
Gasden’s profit and upping the divi-
dend £ percent to percent. Con-
tainers has usually been placed by the
sharemarket on a longer income yield
than Gadsden, but, after its latest good
performance and an asset revaluation,
the market puts Containers on a 3.9
percent dividend yield and 6.6 percent
earnings yield; Gadsden has drifted to
5.3 percent dividend yield and 10 per-
cent on earnings. The Gadsden shares
move between fairly narrow limits and
are currently $1.50. Both companies
are traditionally considered as two
sound investments for income. There
have been few capital benefits from
either. Gadsden made two par issues at


Secure the HIGHEST
interest that’s
Government— Guaranteed
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
uoiee
per annum for
10 or 15 years
ML
per annum for
7 years
MAXIMUM INTEREST. These interest rates now give the highest re-
turns from any Government-Guaranteed Loan.
MAXIMUM SECURITY. Half-yearly interest payments and full repay-
ment of principle at maturity are unconditionally guaranteed by the
N.S.W. Government.
CASH APPLICATIONS accepted in full or by instalments.
CONVERSIONS. Holders of two Loans maturing on Ist December, 1968
(Nos. 113 and 385) are invited to convert to the new Loan.
OPPORTUNITY FOR TRUSTEES. An Authorised Trustee Investment
in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited; Commercial Bank-
ing Company of Sydney Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited; The National Bank of Australasia Limited; Rural Bank of New
South Wales; through your Stockbroker, or at the Board’s offices.
For Prospectus and further information, phone 2 0648 in Sydney or 2 5391 in
Wollongong.
SYDNEY WATER
Underwritten by A. C. GOODE & CO., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
the end of the ’fifties and early ’sixties,
while Containers made a convertible
note issue.
A 10 percent profit fall in the past
year by Gadsden, when Containers
notched a 10 percent profit gain, seems
insufficient reason to avoid Gadsden or
toss it out of a portfolio drawn up for
income and reasonable security, in an
industry which definitely has growth
aspects. Demand for packaging products
increases with the firm trend to self-
service and visual selling in foodstuffs,
textiles, and hardware; there are, more-
over, exciting and important develop-
ments in materials used. Both Gadsden
and Containers have big new capital
investment in mind. Containers is
developing a new open-can manufac-
turing centre at Brooklea (Vic.), while
Gadsden has decided to spend at least
sl£ million on an aluminium can-
making venture, to be the second in
Australia, and $1 million over the next
18 months to two years on developing
its milk-carton manufacture and dis-
tribution.
An unsuccessful sortie last year into
the loan market, perhaps no reflection
on Gadsden’s image or market rating,
makes equity capital the likely source
of funds for this projected development,
although the company still had $950,000
in short-term deposits at balance date,
and normal retained cash flow of $2.2
million is available to finance normal
expansion of trade and the start of this
$2.5 million capital expenditure pro-
gram. Gadsden has labored for years
under the burden of over-capitalisation
(stemming from the merger with the
Gadsden-Hughes business), with narrow
earnings cover for a modest dividend
so only par issues have been made in
the past. A placement, pitched close to
current market, either to institutions,
clients of a broker, or to a supplier
might be the ideal solution, adding to
reserves and stiffening the earning rate.
It is understood the board has not yet
made up its mind about the funding.
Comalco Products Pty. Ltd. will begin
production of aluminium cans early in
1969, some months behind schedule, at
Yennora (N.S.W.) and Clayton (Vic.).
Its investment is officially reported as
$6 to $8 million for the two plants, but
it has had to start from scratch, whereas
Gadsden with printing ovens and presses
and so on in a plant that already makes
tin cans, will not have to duplicate
everything. The location of Gadsden’s
aluminium can plant or plants has not
been decided, either; it has spare land in
Sydney and Melbourne on which it
could build. It intends to set up one
plant and see how it goes before estab-
lishing a second; Gadsden is not as rich
as Comalco, as the managing-director
explains.
The site largely governs the choice of
aluminium supplier, too. Gadsden, as a
converter of other firms’ products, has
not always been able to pass on rises in
raw material costs; in the case of tin-
plate and paper it has been dependent,


Yes General
Credits
,are
lease
specialists
but remember
also our facilities
for bridging finance,
loans for
development projects,
commercial loans
and our instalment
finance plans.
You'll find a plan to
finance any sound
proposal.
Let’s talk it over.
Qeneral
O r ©dits
ASK
ANY
BRANCH
OF
THE
perhaps unhappily, on one local supplier.
(Much of its paper and board require-
ments are, however, imported because
APM does not produce the specialised
types required.) So it is delighted at the
prospect of a choice of aluminium sup-
pliers, each with over-capacity being
very anxious to sell. Even Comalco, its
rival can-maker, would be happy to
supply Gadsden’s needs. While Gadsden
already deals with Alcoa for its needs
of aluminium ends, it may wish to
spread its business around.
Gadsden has been making aluminium
ends for its tin cans for the breweries
since October, 1968, after importing
them for some time. Using $300,000
worth of U.S. equipment, the Sydney
subsidiary, • Gadsden-Hughes, makes
these ends at Fivedock for Tooth and
Co. and the Queensland Brewery Co.;
the Gadsden plant at North Coburg is
making ends in Victoria for Carlton
and United. With more equipment, the
group can supply ends for soft and
mixed drinks, too. The company has
been making tin cans for the breweries
for six years. So far, of the non-bulk
beer, bottles account for about seven
times the output of canned beer in Aus-
tralia, so there is plenty of scope still
for the canners, with or without a short-
age of returnable bottles. The Sydney
brewers, though tight-lipped, are
believed to be running their canning
lines at full capacity. Gadsden would
have no difficulty in supplying the
brewers with all the cans they want by
working a double shift. The trend from
tin to aluminium cans for advantages of
transport, chilling, storage, and scrap, is
irreversible. Thus the faster Gadsden
moves into aluminium the better. If its
tin-can markets are going to be eroded
by aluminium, Gadsden itself may as
well pick up the losses.
Following Containers’ lead in buying
the can-making plant of H. J. Heinz in
an arrangement to supply all Heinz’s
future needs, Gadsden made a similar
deal with Rosella, buying the plant and
supplying Rosella with all its can
requirements as from November 1,
1967. Gadsden is always hoping for
additional liaisons of this kind, but the
field is limited. Cans, of course, are
made for ice-cream and all foods, and
for oils and paints, besides for bever-
ages.
The other major-growth field for
Gadsden is supplying the milk com-
panies with cartons of polyethylene-
coated bleached paper board. With a
licence from Ex-Cell-O Corporation of
the U.S., Gadsden manufactures Pure-
Pak milk cartons at its Fivedock All-
Packs factory, although some blanks
are still imported, and intends to spend
$1 million on factory and layout for a
Melbourne plant. After that, it could
be expansion to other States. Despite
the advantages of weight, ease of handl-
ing, and hygiene, dairies have been
slow to move into this non-returnable
package because they have large
investments in bottling plants. Gadsden


System / 360
success story:
it’s even better
than we promised.
Less than three years ago we
delivered the first SYSTEM/360, a
new concept in computers.
Today SYSTEM/360 will be found in
practically every business in
Australia*. From the model 65, the
largest in Australia, to the smallest
model 20, system/360 is living up
to all the forecasts and
expectations claimed for it!
We said SYSTEM/360 would grow
as your needs grow.
It will.
We said it would get even better.
It has.
Better Speed and Performance
Performance has been boosted
even beyond the outstanding
problem-solving power we had
promised. We’ve cut cycle time
from microseconds to
nanoseconds.
Better Protection of Your
Programming Investment
New hardware devices make
conversion to SYSTEM /360 easy.
It’s possible for IBM customers to
convert without costly
re-programming. When you get
SYSTEM /360 it’s ready to go to
work.
Now Better for Smaller Businesses
Last June we announced a new
small size SYSTEM /360 with higher
performance cost ratio than
anything we've ever offered before.
We are not through improving
SYSTEM/360
The nice thing about this unusual
system is this:
When you need a new way to put
information in or take it out, we can
connect the new device you need
onto this System without changing
in any way how you solve your
problems. We can incorporate new
technological developments in the
System, as they come along. The
System is open-ended. It will grow
as your needs grow.
SYSTEM/360 is the computer with
a future.
We plan to keep it that way.
IBM
*SYSTEM/360 is to be found in airline operations,
banking, weather forecasting, the automotive
industry, insurance, education, the wool industry,
warehousing, local Government, clothing
manufacturer and retail departmental stores.
Petroleum industry, dairy industry, research,
welfare funds. Printing and publishing,
electricity, gas, railways, communications, food,
paint, shipping, general industry, Government,
Totaiisator, wine industry, in fact you name it
and SYSTEM/360 is there.
19544
IBM 1.125.107


m
11/4- .
niiifH
«IULY NMTtpis'
f/U 5
larseille R Paradis 167 *
With a twist of lemon on
the rocks...with a shush
of soda, tonic or dry...
whatever the occasion...
DONT
STIR
imn
IT!
PRAT
the world’s finest
vermouths. Dry, Sweet
and Bianco.
Sole Agents: Swift and Moore Pty. Ltd.
thinks the change is inevitable, although
it will not happen overnight. When
the dairies convert 100 percent to
cartons (this is virtually the position in
Europe now, and 67 percent of U.S.
milk comes in cartons), there will be
big economies for the dairies in drop-
ping daily bottle collections. Gadsden
views its polyethylene-coated cartons
as a major breakthrough in packaging,
and business in Pure-Pak has far
exceeded original estimates by the com-
pany. (Competitor Tetra-Pak is import-
ing square cartons for milk, but its
licensee, Nylex, will be opening a $1
million plant next March.)
After writing back excess tax pro-
visions for all past years, Gadsden’s
profit has been pretty stagnant for three
before the recent profit decline.
As the chairman phrased it in his
annual address: “The main reason for
lower profit for the year was the poor
results achieved by some divisions.”
The company elaborates that the prob-
lems were outside the metal-can busi-
ness, in the flexible side. There are
more converters of polythene and cellu-
lose paper in Australia per head of
population than in the U.S. A lot of
backyard operators make it hard for
any converter to be very profitable, and
rationalisation is called for by takeover
or bankruptcy.
Gadsden has solid competition from
British Tobacco’s Leigh-Mardon, as
well as Containers, in flip-top packs for
cigarettes and cartons.
The company has been making calico
and hessian, paper and polythene bags
and sacks within its flexible division for
years. Crown seals supplement the can
trade. Corrugated and solid fibre con-
tainers and fibreboard fruit cases are
another interesting aspect of group
activities. The carrier bag and wrap-
pings business at Waterloo, which was
acquired in April, 1967, fits into Gads-
den’s field of packaging and printing,
although the marketing to boutiques
and chainstores is different. Making
plain and printed carrier bags, the
company was losing money before it
was taken over, but is now turning the
corner. It should be a very profitable
little company within the Gadsden
group.
A half interest in Australian Packag-
ing Industries, making steel drums,
polythene and polystyrene products,
returned 11.1 percent on book value of
$500,005 last year.
The 1968 < balance sheet reveals an
8 percent lift in stocks and 4 percent
increase in debtors. Chief change was
the rearrangement of borrowings,
effected by the $4 million note issue at
7£ to 7f percent, made halfway through
the year. The underwriter had to make
up 40 percent of the issue, which,
perhaps, was not popular at a time
when the .market was looking for
debenture money. However, the notes
convert to debentures if the company
should at a later date issue debentures.
Gadsden has not been much reliant on
long - term liabilities before. Now


widows
retired couples
young men
& women
everyone can
now cash in on
these R.S.L
benefits
W 9
'
There’s no surer way to profit.....
no sounder way to invest. Here’s why:
• In the R.S.L. Building
Society you can invest any
sum —$50, $6OO, $7,000 or
more.
• Your money currently
earns 6% p.a. with dividends
paid twice a year.
• It can be withdrawn
promptly, at any time, in
whole or in part (and funds
are guaranteed for with-
drawal up to $lO,OOO for
each investor).
• There are no deductions,
stamp duty or management
charges.
• Young people can qualify
for the free Commonwealth
Home Savings Grant through
this society—and get priority
for a home loan to $20,000,
even $30,000.
° Your investment is per-
fectly safe because, by law,
this society can only lend
out money on safe mortgage
loans. For further details
post this coupon, or ring
26-6611.
Om. UMQ)
<r,
sm
iC
S&EE FUND #
FUNDS GUARANTEED FOR WITHDRAWAL
UP TO $lO,OOO PER INVESTOR
RS
L
PERMANENT BUILDING
SOCIETY LIMITED
POST THIS COUPON NOW
R.S.L. Permanent Building Society Limited. Head Office:
Hyde Park House, 271-279 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, details about investment in your society.
NAME
ADDRESS
mortgage loans of $1.6 million and
unsecured notes of $6 million support
the $20.7 million shareholders’ funds in
the group’s financial structure. Over-
draft was cut from $2.16 to $l.l .million
this year.
The judgment debt of $380,000
included in trade debtors was awarded
to the company after a long-drawn-out
case and the debtor has counter-claimed
for $517,000, which Gadsden does not
admit. It believes it will win, so has not
provided against this contingency.
Gadsden, like other converters, has
been squeezed by rising costs, particu-
larly labor, but in April, 1968, it raised
its food-can prices for the first time
since 1962, and general can prices
which had previously been revised in
1965. As about 90 percent of the
group’s employees work under metal
trades awards, and there have been two
wage increases since product prices
were raised, there will not be much
additional net benefit for Gadsden this
year from this source. While the busi-
ness will remain competitive, directors
think it is looking better than last year.
June 30 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968
Revenue
Working profit $OOO 3619 4475 4822 4973 4936
Depreciation $OOO 957 1067 1087 1186 1277
Tax $OOO 966 1257 1516 1577 1680
Net profit $OOO 1696 2151 2219 2210 1979
Earnings % 12.9 16.4 16.8 16.7 15.0
Dividend % 7 7 8 8 8
Earnings to Share-
holders 1 funds 10.0 12.1 11.8 11.1 96
Current ratio 1 7 2.0 1.7 1.7 2.4
Fixed assets $OOO 15622 15183 15292 15521 16044
Dividend yield (a) 5.2 4.7 4.5 4.9 5.1
Price/earnings ratio (a)
High price (b) 1.73 1.50 1.82 1.70 1.70
Low price (b) 1 20 1.18 1.42 1.40 1.37
(a) End of following October.
(b) Calendar years. (1968 to date.)
Current price $1.50. yielding 5.3% on income;
10.0 7o on earnings.
Mining
WESTERN MINING TO
MOVE FASTER ON
NICKEL EXPLORATION
ALL IN ALL, it was a fairly exciting
week on the mining markets, cul-
minating in a short-lived flurry on gold
shares, following news of the closure
of financial centres in Europe.
As expected, Western Mining’s
chairman’s address gave details of
increased ore reserves (up from 10.1
million tons of 3.6 percent nickel to
14.2 million tons of 3.4 percent) and
also gave details of further extensions
to the Lunnon and Otter shoots. Some
of the increase in ore reserves came
from the delineation of new ore shoots.
Two new shoots, the Juan shoot and
the Gallatly shoot, were discovered to
the west of the Durkin shoot, and it
appears that the company will be able
to open a separate mine for almost
every shoot. This has been begun with
the decision to open up a new mine
on the Kambalda West area which will
give the company three operating mines.
But these new mines are, to a large
extent, expected or at least anticipated


0
25
INVEST IN
FOR TEN YEARS
5f% for 12 months. Other rates on application.
First Charge Debenture Stock
Industrial Acceptance Corporation Limited
Paid Up Capital $25,000,000
Other rates and terms available.
See Prospectus for full details.
Prospectus and application form available from:
ALL BRANCHES OF lAC
ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
APPLICATIONS CAN BE ACCEPTED ONLY ON THE PRINTED
FORM ATTACHED TO THE PROSPECTUS.
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
1AC1495.A
JAMES FREDERICK STEWART
formerly of Swan Hill, Victoria. TAKE
NOTICE that MARION STEWART has
instituted proceedings in the Supreme
Court of Victoria in Suit No. 2042 of
1968 seeking a dissolution of her
marriage to you on the ground of
separation and costs. Unless you file
an answer in the Office of the Regis-
trar, Supreme Court, Melbourne, by the
10th day of January, 1969, the case may
proceed in your absence. ELLISON
HEWISON & WHITEHEAD, Solicitors,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne.
About 12.15 a.m. on 7th June, 1968, a
Mazda Station Sedan was. travelling
from Sydney on (Spit Road, Mosman,
when about 150 yards past Pariwi Road
an unidentified vehicle cut across in
front of it from its right, causing the
Mazda to collide with a pole. Anyone
who can give information relating to
the unidentified vehicle please contact
John D. Kennedy & Sons, Solicitors,
Manilla.
r*'
% . ;
m
FROM FLOOR TO ROOF
THERE IS SOMETHING
FOR YOU IN THE
Australian
HOME
Journal
by the market, for to reach a target
of 2.0,000 tons of nickel metal or more,
as previously indicated by the com-
pany, it was obvious that new mines
would be brought into operation. What
is of greater significance, at least in
the shorter term, is the statement that
exploration will be accelerated in areas
other than the Kambalda region.
In the Kambalda area, the company
holds 500 square miles and must
commence to relinquish ground at the
rate of 132 square miles annually as
from September, 1972. This is a fairly
normal requirement and other pros-
pecting reserves held by the company
will also have to be relinquished in
part each year, the standard reduction
being 50 percent of the area held every
12 months. This latter reduction is
rather more severe than the conditions
applying to the Kambalda-St. Ives area
and the company has said that it will
have to spread its exploration over the
whole of its reserves and not just
concentrate on the obviously favorable
areas near Kambalda. The chairman,
Sir Lindesay Clark, indicated that a
number of encouraging indications of
nickel sulphide mineralisation had
been found in these other reserves and
that exploration would be accelerated
in these new areas.
This is the first indication from the
company of nickel sulphides in areas
away from the main Kambalda lease.
Certainly the company has found
extensive lateritic ores and, of course,
Great Boulder and North Kalgurli have
established considerable reserves of
sulphide nickel at Scotia, but Western
Mining’s leases are by far the most
extensive held by listed companies in
the Kalgoorlie-Scotia area (with the
possible exception of the CRA-New
Broken Hill-Anaconda Group). If the
company’s luck holds, the nickel lease
followers had better sharpen their
pencils in readiness for additional dis-
coveries during the coming year. An
example of the company’s interest in
covering the ground fairly quickly and
not just concentrating on the Kambalda
area is the fact that the lateritic ore
deposit, recently the subject of an agree-
ment with Sherritt Gordon, was
established after the drilling of 200
holes.
Sir Lindesay Clark also commented
on the recent intersections obtained by
Central Norseman in its testing for
gold about two miles south of its current
mine. He said that surface results
compared with those which led to the
successful development of orebodies
being mined at present by Central
Norseman and that if the new inter-
sections (ranging from 2.6dwts. per
ton of ore to 139dwts. per ton)
proved to be typical, they could be
important. The exploratory drilling is
quite apart from existing underground
workings and, should tonnages be
proved up, a separate shaft and under-
ground development program would


To feel at home
anywhere
in the U.S.A.
learn one
English word:
“Sheraton”
One English word gets you right to the centre of every-
thing exciting in the U.S.A. That’s where Sheraton
Hotels are. Where the action is!
The same word gets you privacy. Seclusion. A pleasant,
comfortable room with everything you need to feel at
home... away from home.
It also stands for good company. There’s a friendly, in-
formal atmosphere in our restaurants, bars, nightclubs.
Good food and drink, too.
Sheraton is also the word for personal attention. Help
with tours, information, interpreters. All kinds of on-
the-spot services... laundry, haircut, airport limousine
...anything.
Just as important. Sheraton means economy. Your way
of enjoying what’s best in the U.S.A. without spending
a fortune.
Reserve at your Travel Agent or any Sheraton Reser-
vation Office. In Sydney, call: 351955; Melbourne:
63 9961.
SHERATON HOTELS <©
170 exciting hotels across the U.S.A., Hawaii, Canada
and other overseas countries.
A Worldwide Service of ITT
M S 75'
be needed. The intersections have been
some 2000 ft. deep and it is obvious
that a lot more drilling will be required;
nevertheless, some of the intersections
made by Central Norseman compare
very well in terms of dollar value per
ton with the nickel intersections made
by Western Mining itself.
WOODSIDE
LEGENDRE FLOWS
WOODSIDE WAS ABLE to report
that its Legendre No. 1 well increased
its flow rate from 538 barrels per day on
a 5/16th inch choke to 1014 barrels per
day on a 6/16th inch choke. In itself
the report is not particularly exciting, as
these rates of flow would not be commer-
cial for an offshore well at this stage.
It seems that the reservoir which
Legendre pierced is relatively small. At
the same time the flow itself is most
encouraging, as it is considerably in
excess of those encountered on Barrow
Island (which would not have been
commercial if made on an offshore
location) and it appears that the source
rock was reasonably porous, suffering
none of the disability encountered in the
tight sands beneath Barrow Island.
Security analysis
THE BLACKWOOD SAGA
STILL PROCLAIMS
LONG-TERM STRENGTH
THE STEEL and engineering pro-
ducts distribution industry is as tough
as the products it handles, and mer-
chants have a constant battle to record
good profit growth in a market
which has low margins and too many
operators. J. Blackwood and Son is an
exception to the industry rule, having
increased net profit after tax from
$185,000 to $506,000 in five years and
lifted earnings on capital to 36.3 per-
cent from 26.2 percent over the same
period. As paid-up capital has almost
doubled and shareholders’ funds have
gone up 100 percent since 1963-64, the
Sydney-based steel merchant, engineer,
and manufacturer and distributor of
plumbing and building supplies
impresses me as a company with
plenty to offer the growth-oriented
investor.
Blackwood’s history goes back to
1878, when James Blackwood com-
menced business in Sydney Cove
supplying materials to the town’s ship
repairers. From that time the company
steadily increased in size and range of
activity until it obtained Stock
Exchange listing in 1953. In recent
years Blackwood has expanded rapidly
through an acquisition program
designed to facilitate the group’s move-


-
.
» I
> -
1
,i m
. %■ <
*>%|gggllg
Our world in 2005: Hover-bikes for the kids?
c
It's very possible that in the Twenty-
First Century our children will have
motorised bicycles that float on a
cushion of air.
But BASF chemists are realists; they
want our children to enjoy them-
selves now, to grow up in a pleasing
environment.
They are developing disposable
clothing; so that kids can play rough
and messy games with no fear of a
spank from Mum when they get
home.
They are working on magnetic tapes
which will make learning fun.
They are seeking vitamins which will
increase body resistance, and make
epidemics merely an unpleasant
memory.
BASF chemists are working so that
today's children can have more fun,
more scope, more safety and they
take their job seriously.
Badische Anilin- & Soda-Fabrik AG
Ludwigshafen, West Germany
BASF AUSTRALIA LTD.
2 High St. Northcote, Victoria, 3070
Sydney* Brisbane* Adelaide* Perth
BASF
In The Service Of Man
1473


\ V
*■
\ *> /
' .f*l
•• *
rrv
m
r-i
%
;. y
<4
I
\
SsKsr
amsßF
feSgBK
SsiSK
y
/
Look for
the man
who
keeps
a level head
Dictionaries define hurdling as
‘jumping over a hurdle in a race.’ Nothing
could be farther from the truth.
“A good hurdler never jumps” say the
experts. ‘‘He tries to duplicate the actions-of
sprinting. His stride over the hurdle is simply
longer and more accentuated.”
‘‘He’s completely relaxed. His head-
and here’s the mark of the champion-
stays level. It’s never higher over the hurdle
than when he’s sprinting.”
A level head overcomes any obstacle. A
bearing problem, for instance, is best approached
by a man with training, experience and a
record of accomplishment.
Your Timken Company graduate Sales Engineer
is such a man. Call him the next time you have
a bearing problem (in selection, design, assembly
or performance) and he’ll take it in his stride.
TIMKEN
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
Australian Timken Pty. Ltd., Ballarat, Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Subsidiary of The Timken Roller Bearing Company. Timken bearings
are sold in 133 countries and are manufactured in Australia, Brazil, Canada, England, France, South Africa and U.S.A.


' . •
: .-tf ... 'V.'
o
m
t
m
/
one key...
ora
bunch
special keying
systems
for Offices, Factories and
Homes.
Bring Maximum Security
and Convenience right to
your Fingertips.
Carry one key—not a bunch
and
LOCK UP WITH
D
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED.
Edward Street, Huntingdale, Vic. 3166.
Please send further information to
NAME
COMPANY
ADDRESS „
J 67
ment into new geographical areas and
add lines allied to the parent com-
pany’s existing business. The present
managerial philosophy is to maintain
the strength built up over 90 years and
to use this strength as a basis for further
development through acquisitions.
On a breakdown of group finances
I understand that manufacturing
accounts for about 20 percent of the
group’s business, with distribution
making up the balance.
The $1.2 million warehouse and
offices at Lidcombe (Sydney), opened
in January, 1967, and the Waterloo
(Sydney) steelyard have proved to be
ideal distribution points for servicing
the whole of Sydney’s industrial needs,
and, with very modern layout, they
have greatly improved the company’s
overall operational efficiency. There
are about 50,000 items handled by the
parent company, which in addition to
steel, include valves and pipe fittings,
power and hand tools, non-ferrous
metals, including copper tube, a wide
range of industrial fasteners, matejials-
handling equipment, and abrasives.
Blackwood’s subsidiaries, all acquired
since 1961, are organised on a geo-
graphical basis as well as through pro-
duct differentiation. The A. E. Baker
group operates from Parramatta (Syd-
ney) in builders’ supplies, steel, and
engineering products, while the former
W. R. McKerrow company now
handles plumbers’ supplies, also with
engineering and steel elements, in Can-
berra, under the name of J. Blackwood
& Son (Canberra). United Engineer-
ing Supplies, the group’s Melbourne
subsidiary, deals in industrial fasteners,
hand tools, and conducts a processing
operation in profile and band-saw cut-
ting, and surface grinding of steel. At
Burwood (Sydney) the recently
acquired subsidiary, Turner Products,
manufactures a wide range of special-
ised precision pipe fittings in brass
and stainless steel of the compression
and flare-fitting type, oriented toward
engineering applications. Turner Pro-
ducts also has a distribution point in
the Sydney suburb of St. Peters and a
small branch in Brisbane. Another
product area is in grease nipples.
The acquisition of other subsidiaries
in recent years has expanded Black-
wood’s activities into lighting and cable
products, areas which are also making
solid contributions to group profit. At
Auburn (N.S.W.), Associated Lighting
Industries manufactures and markets a
wide range of fluorescent light fittings,
which have won good-design awards
from the Illuminating Engineering
Society. Another subsidiary, Australian
Light & Power, has a sheet-metal plant
at Rydalmere (N.S.W.), suppling the
lighting company with its requirements.
In cables the group operates through
Cable & Electrical Supplies, situated at
Auburn, which markets cable and manu-
factures cable harnesses for appliances.
In addition to these extensive opera-
tions, Blackwood has many current
developments under way, or planned, to


BRADMILL
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: BRADMILL HOUSE, CNR. MISSENDEN & PARRAMATTA RDS., CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W. 2050.
Speech of Sir Robert Webster (Chair-
man) to Stockholders at the Forty-First
Annual Meeting of Bradmill Industries
Limited, held on October 30th, 1968.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
This is the forty-first Annual Meeting
of the Company, and the first since the
name was changed from Bradford Cot-
ton Mills Limited to Bradmill Industries
Limited. The change of name has been
well accepted and we believe that “Brad-
mill”, which has been used as a leading
trade name for many years, appropri-
ately indicates the Australian identity of
the Company and the diversity of its
operations.
The Report of the Directors and the
printed accounts, which have been dis-
tributed to all Stockholders, show that
for the year ending June 30, 1968, the
total profit before tax earned by Brad-
mill Industries Limited and its Subsidi-
aries was $3,036,579, and that the net
profit after tax for the year was
$1,684,029.
In my address to Stockholders at the
last Annual Meeting I. said that the first
quarter of the financial year had shown
very satisfactory profits and the results
now before you indicate that our trading
throughout the financial year was at very
satisfactory levels.
I feel that Stockholders will share
my gratification at the steady improve-
ment in profits both before and after tax
in the last six consecutive years. The
figures appear on page 9 of the printed
accounts.
Since 1965 successive years have
produced after tax profits which were
in each instance record figures and it is
something of an achievement that the
year under review has produced record
sales and record profits in comparison
with previous years which had also pro-
duced what were up till then record fig-
ures. * (Refer table below).
I feel that it is right to say at this
point that the organisational changes
which I referred to in my last report have
borne fruit. The management of Brad-
mill Industries Limited is in the capable
hands of your Managing Director, Mr.
Charles F. McElvenny, who is supported
by a team of executive officers and
managers, all of whom are skilled in
their particular areas of activities. They
in turn have the support of one of the
Company’s great assets the combined
skills and experience of its employees.
On behalf of the Board of Directors and
on my own behalf, I wish to again
acknowledge the loyalty and downright
hard work at each level of activity within
the Company. It is resulting from this
team effort that the results for the year
have been achieved.
COMMENT ON THE ACCOUNTS
Turning now to the printed accounts
which deal quite fully with the results, I
wish to comment briefly on some of the
more important figures.
The general financial position of the
Company has been further strengthened
during the year and the continuation of
a sound cash flow has enabled us to
finance the necessary expansion of cur-
rent assets and the replacement and ex-
tension of fixed assets from internal
sources.
If you will look at the Consolidated
Funds Statement on page 10 of the
printed accounts you will see that during
the year additions to fixed assets total
$1,343,166 and the value of stocks in-
creased by $820,122.
The increase in the value of the stocks
is brought about by several factors. A
reorientation of the activities in our man-
made fibre division has necessitated
carrying stocks of higher priced spun
yarns. In the cotton area, an increase in
consumption necessitated a somewhat
higher stock level of this commodity and
an increase in the world parity price of
raw cotton added to our stock values.
As a matter of policy, stocks of cot-
ton yarns were built up in the latter
months of the financial year and these
too added to the value of the raw mat-
erials on hand. These cotton yarn stocks
have now been sold.
Bank overdraft of $3,466,176 shows
a reduction of $90,752 and creditors and
bills payable at $4,014,798 are $647,339
lower. Bank overdraft at September 30
has been reduced by $328,000 below the
June level.
Depreciation charged in determining
the profit for the year was $1,617,700.
You will note in the printed report
that we are part of an industry which
obtains 90% of its requirements of raw
cotton from Australian sources Brad-
mill Industries Limited itself uses approxi-
The following extracts from the statistical records at five year intervals show the
steady progress which the Company has made and, read in conjunction with the table
on page 10 of the Report, give a clear picture of the results of our combined efforts.
1928 1931 1936 1941 1946 1951 1956 1961 1966 1968
No. Of Employees 10 105 475 1412 1870 3000 2509 2718 3782 3738
Wages and Salaries paid $OOO 2.0 21.3 90.1 374.6 872.7 2332 4090 6673 9330 10761
Paid Up Capital $OOO 35.9 60.3 252.0 1349.0 1790.0 3840.4 6090.9 8949.0 8954.4 9000.3
Stockholders Funds $OOO 44.3 76.0 295.4 1845.4 2491.2 6528.6 10399.2 15453.4 16186.3 17452.2
Fixed Assets $OOO 54.7 75.8 221.4 1814.8 2177.0 8650.4 9775.0 14995.4 18491.3 17474.3
Depreciation $OOO .7 3.2 74.2 68.6 137.3 362.6 554.7 961.8 1387.8 1617.7
Profit before Tax $OOO 7.4 3.8 57.0 222.6 307.0 902.4 1567.8 1610.4 2161.2 3036.6
Profit after Tax $OOO 5.9 2.9 43.8 136.4 201.4 736.8 940.4 901.0 1235.6 1684.0
Dividend Rate 12*% 10% 10% 10% 12±% 10% 10% 10%
Taxation $OOO 1.5 0.9 13.2 86.2 105.6 165.6 627.4 709.4 925.6 1352.6
Value Of Stock $OOO 28.8 35.6 106.5 576.4 1043.9 7093.2 4723.4 8146.5 9804.7 10147.0
Bank Overdraft $OOO 21.6 3.6 7.4 592.1 758.4 3038.4 2315.8 3635.5 5460.9 3466.2
11 months
only
mately 36% of the local crop. In addition,
we are important customers of Govern-
ment and semi-Government Departments
in that we purchase light, power; pay
local rates; provide revenue for the Rail-
ways and/or Road Transport Depart-
ment; and we provide a livelihood for a
variety of small businesses engaged in
the supply of a wide range of stores and
components which an industry such as
ours would consume.
Now that man-made fibre filament
yarns are produced in Australia we are,
of course, very significant customers of
those companies who have set up to
supply weaving and knitting yarns and
they have a similar story to tell of the
job opportunities they provide.
Perhaps I could go further and draw
attention to the fact that the biggest
stake-holder in Bradmill Industries is not
the Stockholder as is generally con-
ceded. In the year ended June 30, 1968,
for example, dividends paid to our Stock-
holders were approximately $887,000.
Federal and State taxes, stamp duties
and the like for the same period, and
charged into the accounts before ascer-
taining the profits before you, amounted
to $1,713,900 which is getting pretty
close to double the amount Stockholders
have received in dividends.
Add to these figures wages and sala-
ries amounting to $10,761,000 and it will
be appreciated that Bradmill Industries
Limited Stockholders, as a result of their
investment, are making a very significant
contribution to the well-being of the
Nation and its people.
TARIFF BOARD STUDIES
Much has been said and written
about the “new look” in the outline of
policy set out in the Annual Report of
the Tariff Board for the year 1967-68.
Much more will be said and written in the
immediate years ahead.
I am not so sure, however, that there
is really any “new look” about the policy.
In a general sort of way the Tariff Board
has been thinking and acting on these
lines for some time, but in a piecemeal
fashion.
To those who have never had the
responsibility of building up industry bit
by bit in the face of terrific opposition
from Asian and other countries and from
local vested interests, the theoretical
principles being enunciated appear to be
sound and reasonable, which indeed they
would be if the assumptions on which
they are based were correct. They are
not and the scheme will not work.
There is no strict standard against
which to judge effective duty. Effective
duties against what? A wildly and widely
fluctuating set of import prices having
neither stability nor a sound basis.
In spite of what has been said it is
hard to believe that Governments would
be willing to apply stringently and nar-
rowly a selective policy in respect to
protection which would mean that effi-
ciency would be judged by the amount
of duty necessary to protect an industry
against prices charged by overseas com-
petitors, irrespective of the way any par-
ticular price is fixed or the reasons for it.
The reasons themselves vary from month
to month and year to year, according to
trading conditions and policy, which has
nothing to do with efficiency. We might
only need 25% of duty at a particular
point of time, a rate narrowed down to the
concept that duties should be such that
they will be low enough to permit inter-
national competition. Immediately this
has been settled we find competition
coming from some other country selling


Every Australian uses, wears, works in, or plays in
Bradmill fabrics. And not Just occasionally.
No matter where you live, what you do, or how
old you are, you will use Bradmill fabrics
sometime this week . . .
Bradmill Sheets and pillow cases.
Bradmill drills and denims.
Bradmill Proban flame-resistant cotton fabrics.
Bradmill Warden Duck and Kordux,
* TERYLENE-core spun duck.
Bradmill tyre cord fabric, filter fabrics, belting and
industrial fabrics.
Bradmill Lana-Knit double knit fabrics in wool,
Crimplene * in fabrics by Lana-Knit.
Bradmill KAdron TERYLENE * Sailcloth.
Bradmill jacquard mattress tickings.
Bradmill Royal Swan ribbons.
Bradmill woven & printed labels.
Bradmill TERYLENE * sheers.
Bradmill Fashion fabrics taffetas, satins, crepes,
brocades, failles and linen-type fabrics.
Bradmill natural, dyed and man-made fibre yarns.
Bradmill linings.
Bradmill Men's wear fabrics & Koratron
Permanent Press fabrics.
Bradmill Furnishing fabrics.
Bradmill Christmas decorations, tying tapes &
tinsel garlands. * Regd. Td. Mks.
8G378
at prices which have nothing to do with
costs and which makes our protection at
25% worthless. Even an increase in
wages and salaries awarded by an Arbi-
tration Court can have the same result.
The Tariff Board has said that it is not
to be accepted that increased costs of
this kind will be followed by increased
protection.
We all know very well that the major
manufacturing nations in the world from
time to time end of season or for
other very good reasons sell locally
and export to overseas countries goods
at very much reduced prices. Internally
this has little effect on the business of
the exporting country, because of the
immensity of their local markets and the
relatively small proportion these low
priced exported goods bear to their total
production, but on the small Australian
market the quantities can be all impor-
tant.
When this occurs the only course
open is to cut back production, which
reduces efficiency, and increases costs
because the overheads remain fairly con-
stant; and there is the crippling cost of
retraining new people when the crisis
has passed. This can occur several times
a year for the simple reason that seasons
differ from one country to another. Then
we have the masses of goods pouring out
of Asian countries with prices being
changed to meet any set of conditions
with which they might have to contend.
Time and time again increases in pro-
tection have immediately been countered
with a corresponding reduction in price.
Finally we have the competition of auth-
oritarian countries where cost of pro-
duction does not necessarily relate to
price and with these not even the lowest
cost Asian countries can compete.
In our own Company when we
entered the fine spinning business on the
efficiency we ultimately reached we could
have competed with overseas competi-
tors then supplying the market without
any protective duties. Immediately it be-
came known that we were entering this
field of production overseas competitors
slashed their prices.
In the foregoing circumstances
and many others could be quoted
what appeared to be a very efficient in-
dustry one day, measured in terms of
overseas prices, becomes a so called
inefficient industry next day because
some country between China and Peru,
for reasons which have no relation to
their own or our efficiency, sets a price
on their goods which we cannot meet.
Some countries today are setting prices
which are little more than half the price
being charged by the Japanese for simi-
lar articles. Does this make the Japanese
inefficient?
What sort of nonsense it would be to
judge the efficiency of a business in these
circumstances!
If the prices charged for goods ex-
ported to Australia always had even some
general relation to costs of production,
tariff making, whilst still being full of
complications, would in a comparative
sense be simple. These conditions did
exist until shortly before the outbreak of
the last war. That conditions were rapidly
changing was masked out by the war
itself, the shortage of goods which fol-
lowed, the slow return to production of
China and Japan, an unwillingness to
trade with the Communist countries and
many other reasons.
The picture has now changed com-
pletely. In the face of the competition and
the conditions of competition, bench-
marks, effective duties, and duties low
enough to allow outside countries to com-
pete have no real meaning if industry is
to be protected. If it is not to be pro-
tected then there should be no duties at
all.
Sooner or later we have got to face
up to the fact that there must be some
variation of the present means of pro-
tecting Australian industries. All other
major manufacturing countries includ-
ing the lowest cost Asian countries and
the authoritarian countries have recog-
nised this and where necessary have
adopted other measures to protect their
industries many of them by agree-
ments and quotas under GATT and many
surreptitiously. Low duties have no mean-
ing under conditions which prevent goods
going in at all, or only up to limits pre-
scribed in a quota.
Whilst I hold very different views, I
appreciate there are many people who
are opposed to Australian industry alto-
gether if it needs protection. This is their
philosophy. They represent a school of
thought which has always existed in all
countries, but in modern times have never
succeeded in having their views adopted
by those who have responsibility for
Government. Most of those who advocate
duties so low that they do not protect also
belong to this school, although most of
them do not realise it.
One of the theories advanced in the
recently enunciated proposals is that
their adoption will divert funds from
industries coming within the higher
brackets of protection into those which
need no protection, or only what is con-
sidered to be low rates of protection.
It is difficult to believe that such
diversion of funds would be anything but
negligible. We are all looking for invest-
ments of this kind. Does anyone seriously
believe that there are any worthwhile in-
dustries not needing any or only low
protection languishing for want of capi-
tal? Many industrialists would only be
too ready to remedy such a state of
affairs.
We already have some industries in
this country needing only limited protec-
tion because of the unusual costs which
attach to importing the goods from over-
seas, but even bottles and drums, com-
modities which are costly to handle and
where freight charges are mostly for air
space, would not be able to continue for
long without some protection. Industries
of this kind are not necessarily efficient
simply because their protective duties are
low, they could be very inefficient.
Whatever comes out of this turmoil
we can be sure industry is not going to
be destroyed. The Government will prob-
ably, in the final analysis, be pushed into
doing what other countries do, and that
is to protect Australian industries by
some means other than conventional
duties. In any case, so far as the textile
industry is concerned we have been con-
stantly under review, having had no less
than 65 inquiries during the last 39 years,
of which 46 inquiries were during the
years 1957-68 inclusive. A large propor-
tion were unsought by the industry. What
has been done in the name of “efficient
and economic” is a sorry tale. It is fair
to say that an industry which can stand
up to this sort of battering must be at
least reasonably efficient.
THE FUTURE
We, as a Company, are geared to
meet any significant changes in demand
which may occur in the foreseeable
future. We are equipped to benefit from
the natural growth of the economy. We
expect to increase our share of the mar-
ket in both cotton and man-made fibre
fabrics, and if the trend to man-made
fibre yarn is sustained we are geared to
spin the requirements of those who may
prefer yarns of man-made fibre.
I believe that the development and
progress evidenced in the year under re-
view will continue in the current year and
it is satisfactory to note that sales in the
current financial year are ahead of sales
for the comparable period of last year.
Profits, however, were lower than for the
corresponding period last year, but never-
theless are regarded as satisfactory. The
reduction in profits has been due almost
entirely to the falling off in demand for
yarn from the knitting trade which is now
improving.
CONCLUSION
I have referred earlier to the con-
tribution made by all the employees of
the Company, for each one in his or her
own sphere has contributed to the very
successful year we have had. On behalf
of the Stockholders, the Board of Direc-
tors and myself, I extend to them our
thanks for the contribution they have
made.
I now wish to formally move that the
Directors' Report and the Accounts of the
Company for the year ended June 30,
1968, be adopted and I will thank some-
body to second the resolution so that the
matters may be open for discussion.
R. J. WEBSTER
CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS.
SYDNEY, October 30, 1968


COMPANY MEETING
HIGHLIGHTS OF CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
BROKEN HILL SOUTH LIMITED
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000
The annual meeting of Broken Hill South Limited was held in Melbourne on
Friday, November 8, 1968. The Chairman of Directors, Sir Lindesay Clark was
chairman of the meeting. The following were highlights of his address:
FINANCIAL
The consolidated net profit of
the Broken Hill South group of
companies was $3,481,000,
$869,000 higher than in 1967.
The net profit of the parent
company was $2,489,000, being
fractionally lower than in 1967.
Increase in consolidated profit
came from South’s share in
higher earnings by Cobar Mines
Proprietary Limited and the
Electrolytic Refining and Smelt-
ing Company of Australia
Limited, offset by a small drop in
the parent company’s operations.
Notwithstanding increasing
amounts of capital invested in
mechanisation, etc., working
costs are rising and are becom-
ing of increasing concern to the
mining industry which has to
compete at prices essentially
determined by competition in
world markets.
Dividend No. 126 of 5 cents
per stock unit declared on Sep-
tember 27 was due for payment
on Friday, 6th December, 1968.
In the audited Statements of
Account, the low provision for
Commonwealth income tax for
the year in the consolidated ac-
counts and the absence of any
such provision by the parent
company arise because, in the
mining company members of
the group, the amount of deduc-
tions claimed under the mining
provisions of the Income Tax
Act, in respect of capital expen-
diture on plant and mine de-
velopment, had reduced taxable
income to nil. It is the long
standing practice in the Broken
Hill South Limited group of
mining companies to claim, for
income tax purposes, the maxi-
mum deduction possible in the
year, for items which were the
subject of deduction, under the
mining provisions of the Act,
mainly capital expenditure on
plant and mining development.
In the year ended 30th June,
1968, the amounts claimed as de-
ductions exceeded the amounts
written off in the accounts as
depreciation and amortisation of
these items. The Report of the
Company's Auditors, Messrs.
Cooper Brothers and Company,
appended to the accounts, ex-
pressed the opinion that net
profit results should have been
reduced by amounts of $lOB,OOO
for the parent company and
$815,000 for the Company’s
share of the consolidated net
profit. These amounts are equal
to the benefit gained by the
Company in the 1968 year as a
result of the excess or acceler-
ated income tax deductions. The
auditors would have set aside
these amounts to income tax
equalisation account, in arriving
at the year’s net profit. In those
future years in which the relative
positions may be reversed, the
Auditors’ suggestion would re-
quire amounts to be returned to
the credit of profit and loss
account by transfer from the
equalisation account to equalise
the impact of income tax on
profits.
By taking deductions available
at the earliest time permitted by
the Act, the amount of income
tax payable in the year in which
the deductions are taken is re-
duced. It follows that net profit
after income tax in that year is
correspondingly higher.
It seemed to the Board logical
that the benefit to the Company
arising in the year from this
source should be reflected in the
higher earnings in that year, and
that the benefit of the higher
profit after income tax is proper-
ly to be regarded as accretion to
Stockholders’ Funds available to
be used to the Company’s best
advantage.
The present stockholders of the
Company should clearly see the
extent of these benefits and
should see them for what they
are when they arise, namely
Stockholders’ Funds. The Com-
pany’s accounts have been pres-
ented in a form which demon-
strates this, whereas the form of
presentation desired by the
Auditors would understate the
value to stockholders of the
benefits which the Company has
gained through claiming these
available deductions, as it would
classify a sum equal to the bene-
fits derived amongst Current
Liabilities and Provisions.
The Directors have resolved and
certified that in their opinion the
accounts presented together with
the attached explanatory notes
on pages 22 and 23 of the An-
nual Report, represent a true and
fair view and one which is in ac-
cord with statutory require-
ments.
FUNDS
Notwithstanding the retention of
funds in the business through
depreciation, amortisation and
other provisions in the accounts,
the level of capital expenditure,
which remained high, resulted
in the continuing need through-
out the year for short term
borrowings.
In view of expected capital re-
quirements, the Directors de-
cided to proceed with a share
issue, the details being notified
in Circular to Stockholders dated
10th October, 1968. Approxi-
mately 6,112,500 50 cent shares
are to be issued to stockholders
at $2.50 each, in the proportion
of one new share for each four
stock units held on 25th Sep-
tember, 1968, to bring in net
proceeds of approximately
$15,130,000. The proceeds from
the new issue will be added to
the general funds of Broken
Hill South Limited and will be
available to carry forward the
Queensland phosphate project,
to maintain the existing high
level of field exploration and for
other activities in the group, in-
cluding mine development.
TAX AMENDMENTS
Amendments were made to the
Income Tax Act by the Com-
monwealth Government, with
effect from 10th May, 1968.
While these amendments have
clarified some aspects of the
allowances, overall they have
diminished the benefits that the
mining companies and their
shareholders had previously en-
joyed. To this extent, the ability
of mining companies to finance
development of any new dis-
coveries or to expand current
projects from internal cash flow
and to obtain finance has been
decreased. In the amendments
the previous allowance in respect
of calls paid on shares in mining
companies has been restricted to
the proportion of these calls
which are expended on prospect-
ing or exploration for minerals.
Among the other amendments,
a significant alteration is that
port establishment costs in the
nature of surveys, dredging and
suchlike will not be allowed as
a deduction, although deprecia-
tion on port facilities installed
will still be permitted under the
general provisions of the Act.
The -mining industry frequently
has to provide its own port
facilities, often at very high
capital cost, whereas in settled
areas, industry uses ports pro-
vided by Governments. In bring-
ing a property into commercial
production, the establishment of
a port through which to ship
products is just as essential as
other capital items upon which
income tax deduction is allowed.
Therefore, it would seem equit-
able that the special position of
the mining industry should be
recognised and accelerated de-
ductions allowed for all expen-
diture on ports, to assist in
financing this construction. The
deferment of taxes for a few
years, which is what the allow-
ance of these deductions amounts
to, does not seem a high cost
for the country to pay for the
contribution to national develop-
ment in the form of deep-water
ports on the long Australian
coastline.
EXPLORATION
Mineral exploration is being
Sir Lladesay Clark
continued in the Broken Hill
district, Kanmantoo (S.A.),
Chillagoe (Qld.) and has re-
cently commenced in W.A.
OPERATIONS AT
BROKEN HILL
In the current year at the South
Mine it is intended to mine and
treat 220,000 tons of ore from
the No. 7 Shaft and Browne
Shaft Sections. The ore is ex-
pected to be slightly lower in
grade. 250,000 tons of residues
from the Mt. Hebbard dump
will be treated.
PHOSPHATE
The investigation of the phos-
phate project is being actively
pursued. To June 30, 1968,
$1,292,750 had been expended
on the Queensland reserves. A
total of 1,500 drill intersections
had been made in the phos-
phorite horizon.
Within the drilled area at
Duchess in the south, 1,100 mil-
lion tons of beneficiating grade
ore have been proved using a cut
off grade of 18 % Po O 5 which
is the grade used in the U.S.
Bureau of Mines publications.
Another 250 million tons had
been proved on the Lady Annie
deposit.
In addition, there are very large
tonna'ges of phosphate rock,
varying both in grade and the
amounts of impurities, on which
a limited amount of scout dril-
ling has been done. These are
significant from the aspect of
total ultimate resources of
phosphate in the district, but they
still await close examination.
The Lady Annie deposits occur
near the initial trial survey of
the railway from Duchess to
possible sites on the Gulf. A
contract has been let to photo-
graph and lay out in some detail
the railway track from the coast
to the deposits. Hydrographic
surveys are about to begin to
select the most likely port site
and a channel to deep water in
the Gulf.
Last year the chairman referred
to the need for phosphates to
overcome the deficiency of phos-
phate in Australian soils and
the consequential large and
growing market within Australia
itself, apart from any other out-
lets elsewhere. Phosphate rock
is a low grade bulk product and
the project will have to be oper-
ated from the beginning at a
high annual output. This will in-
volve equipping mines and con-
Continued next page


centrating plants in addition to
railways, water supply and port
facilities, all on a large scale. To
devise plans for bringing such a
project into production in north
Queensland, requires detailed in-
vestigation of many facets of the
project. None of these investiga-
tions can be quickly or easily
resolved, but all are in progress
and are being actively pursued.
INTERESTS IN
NEW ZEALAND
During the year, Tasman Pet-
roleum Limited, in which Beach
Petroleum N.L. has a 50% inter-
est, concluded a satisfactory
farm out agreement under which
New Zealand Aquitaine Petrol-
eum had undertaken to carry
out an extensive programme of
marine geophysical exploration.
COBAR
Ore production from the C.S.A.
Mine at Cobar has been gra-
dually increasing and in the 4
weeks to 12th October 60,000
tons of ore were hoisted.
Over the next six months de-
velopment of orebodies at the
1,800 ft. level should be com-
pleted and then the full produc-
tion rate of 60,000 tons a month
should be maintained.
The geology of the field has been
under continual investigation
since operations began. The
knowledge thus gained, together
with the discovery of copper-
zinc lodes between the two
copper lodes at C.S.A., justifies
a more favourable assessment,
though probably at a lower
grade, of the tonnage potential
of the field as a whole, particu-
larly in the vicinity of the Great
Cobar Mine.
Full production at the C.S.A.
mine now being imminent, it has
been decided to expand develop-
ment at C.S.A. and other ore-
bodies in the field. To this end
drilling will begin on the copper-
zinc-lead mineralisation above
the 700 ft. level of the C.S.A.
mine. At Great Cobar, the earl-
ier mined copper orebody which
lies on the western margin of a
wide mineralised zone similar to
that containing the C.S.A. ore-
bodies, it is intended to begin
drilling the eastern untested
portion of the zone from the
surface concurrently with un-
watering the Great Cobar mine
itself.
Beyond the projects now being
undertaken is the prospecting of
the group of orebodies in the
vicinity of the Chesney mine.
This is the beginning of a de-
velopment programme which
will be gradually extended
throughout the mining tene-
ments held by Cobar Mines.
BROKEN HILL SOUTH’S
OTHER INTERESTS
The net profit of The Electro-
lytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia Limited
improved notwithstanding diffi-
cult trading conditions. The loss
of the greater part of the Mount
Lyell copper at the end of 1969
will emphasise the importance
to E. R. and S. of the limited
Australian market in copper-
bearing scrap as a source of raw
material.
Metal Manufactures Limited.
Major plant installations were
initiated by this group in 1967,
with the object of increasing
efficiency and reducing costs
to meet increasing competition.
The new installations together
with others proposed are indica-
tive o'f the company’s confidence
in the future use of its products.
Alcoa of Australia Limited
earned a net profit of $2.85 mil-
lion in 1967, and plans have been
announced of a large scale ex-
pansion programme as the result
of rapidly growing market de-
mand, both domestic and export,
for the company’s products.
Capital expenditure in excess of
$4O million was to be made. The
future of Alcoa of Australia
Limited is viewed with con-
fidence and the time is approach-,
ing at which dividends >may be
expected.
At The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Proprietary Limited,
Port Pirie, production of lead
and silver has returned to nor-
mal following the cessation by
the Unions at Broken Hill of the
two stop-work days per week at
the mines. A full range of zinc
grades and alloys is being made
in the new zinc plant at Port
Pirie.
METAL MARKETS
Prolonged strikes in the U.S.A.
during the year had affected the
free world supply of lead, zinc,
copper and silver,*and as a result
some prices varied widely, cop-
per in particular.
There was an indicated deficit in
lead metal production for the
year, but the position could
change rapidly as new mines in
the U.S.A. reached full pro-
duction.
Demand for zinc metal had been
strong particularly from U.S.A.,
although zinc concentrate re-
mained in excess of demand for
the metal. World supply and de-
mand for copper was in balance.
In most countries the cost of
producing copper has risen and
this must play a significant role
in maintaining current price.
In U.S.A. the role of silver had
changed from a monetary metal
to that of a commodity. New
mine production of silver is
insufficient to meet industry de-
mand and the shortfall continues
to be met in the main by the
sales from the United States
Treasury.
COPY OF ADDRESS
A copy of the full text of the
Chairman’s Address may be
obtained from The Secretary,
Broken Hill South Limited,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria, 3000.
The Broken Hill South group of companies includes:
Cobar Mines Proprietary Limited *, Mines Exploration Proprietary
Limited • The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Company of
Australia Limited
maintain growth and increase profit-
ability further. The Melbourne ware-
house is being expanded to cater for a
wider product range than the present
lines in fasteners and hand tools. The
group is extending the Waterloo steel-
yards. It is also establishing a separate
lifting - gear and materials - handling
department to accelerate the sales of
these ranges of products. A power-
transmission department has just com-
menced operations, with important fran-
chises from major suppliers. A range of
pipe of American Petroleum Institute
standard is also being added, which is
extensively used in the oil industry and
is also in demand for other industrial
applications where high pressure is
encountered.
Under a new .franchise the company is
now marketing stainless-steel tube pro-
duced by British Tube Mills (Aust.) at
its South Australia plant. An important
franchise just obtained by Blackwood
is the sole Australian distribution rights
for stainless-steel rod and bar products
manufactured by Stora Kopparbergs, of
Sweden. The Swedish company can lay
claim to being the oldest public com-
pany in the world, dating back to the
12th century, when copper mining was
commenced. Today, Stora Kopparbergs
is a major industrial group in steel,
timber, pulp, and chemicals. In stainless
steel the company has a reputation for
high quality, and Blackwood expects
good returns from the new venture.
By successfully overcoming the prob-
lems inherent in steel merchandising,
Blackwood has been able to increase
sales and successfully market allied
lines on a profitable basis. Future pros-
pects appear sound as the Australian
construction boom shows little sign of
slackening off and the group now has
the product diversification to cushion
any downturn in new building.
A comparison of ten companies in
the industry shows the strength of
Blackwood’s performance:
Price/
Earnings per Dividend Earnings
share (cents) Yield % Ratio
Wm. Atkins 8 8 7.3 9 8
Wm. Adams 15 6 6.8 11.2
J. Murray-More 13.1 8.7 8.8
McAllister 8< Williams 7.75 7.7 8 4
Eliza Tinsley 15.7* 8.2 7 8
Lords Holdings 28.3* 6.5 8.1
Harris Scarfe 3 05 7.9 12.4
McPhersons 24.8 5.8 11.1
Blackwood 36.5 3.8 11 5
Austral Steel 9.35 5.3 8.1
(* 1966/67.)
The financial statistics are:
Values s’ooo
1964 1965 1966 1967 1968
Ordinary capital 763 839 1152 1152 1392
Ord. s’holders' funds 2193 2330 3390 3573 4428
Total asests 3311 3899 5112 6319 7715
Pre-tax profit 364 513 588 685 960
Profit for ordinary 207 271 325 384 506
Ordinary dividend 118 128 151 184 234
Profit for ordinary to
shareholders funds % 9.4 11.6 9.6 10.8 11.5
Dividend payout
ratio % 57 48 46.5 48 46
Tax to pre-tax
profit % 43 47 45 44 48
Earnings per share
(cents) 28.1 32.3 29.4 33.3 36.3
Dividends per share
(cents) 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16 0
Share price—
High (par $1) 400 420 395 420 430
Low 370 360 320 360 380
Summary: The $1 stares are cur-
rently priced at $4.20, yielding 3.8
percent. The price/earnings ratio is
11.5. At this price there is still room
for further growth, and Blackwood
appeals as a stock for long-term
investment.


THE ARTS
AND ENTERTAINMENT
Tangled, with puppets, in the
loose ends of transition
By PATRICIA ROLFE
SO LARGE a part, for good or ill, has
the Elizabethan Theatre Ti’ust played
in recent theatrical life here that, sur-
prisingly, few people who have been
kicked or kissed by the Trust can
really believe that the animal is
defunct. And, it must be admitted, in
its death throes it seems to have lashed
out pretty powerfully in one or two
directions.
It was clear when Dr. Coombs’ Aus-
tralian Council for the Arts was set
up that there was little future for
the Trust. The Council is naturally
taking over the distribution of sub-
sidies. Any check on how these are
spent must be by the Council, so that
the Australian Ballet, Elizabethan
Opera Company, and so on become
autonomous with their boards respon-
sible for accounting for how Govern-
ment and other moneys have been spent.
A role for the Trust looking after
visiting artistic companies or maintain-
ing general workshops and wardrobes
has been canvassed, but this is the
equivalent of a general who has been
leading the army finding that he is
now bringing up the rear with the
stores a not very exciting job and
not one which the Trust would neces-
sarily do well.
It is not surprising that this period of
transition is difficult in some respects.
It is not surprising that people on the
artistic side of things in Dowling Street,
Woolloomooloo, should seek a fresh
footing, and we are not so well served
with experienced people in the arts that
talent should be brusquely discarded.
What is surprising is that people
co-opted from other fields, such as the
public service and business, to serve on
the board of the Trust do not now
appear anxious to escape from what is
not a notably easy area to work in and
to return to the fields in which they are
experienced.
Although the general picture of the
future of the subsidised performing
arts is clear, the present changeover
inevitably leaves a few ends loose. One
of these is the Marionette Theatre of
Australia.
The Marionette Theatre of Austra-
lia, at the moment-, consists of Mr.
Peter Scriven, its founder and creator
of the Tintookies, sitting in his house
at Paddington; a dedicated and skilled
company on tour at the moment in
the far west of New South Wales
but naturally, somewhat doubtful about
their future (if you are a puppeteer
and lose your job, you cannot just go
around the corner and get another one);
and a quantity of equipment and
properties stored at Botany.
The Marionette Theatre of Austra-
lia does not have some of the problems
of companies which, at the moment,
appear to be in a more cheerful and
secure position than it. For one thing,
it is in high demand. The company
has been invited by the Prime Minister’s
Department to go to Expo 70 in Japan,
and a season at a new National
Children’s Theatre in London is pro-
jected. However, like all theatrical
enterprises, it needs strenuous and
imaginative forward planning, which
is impossible at the moment; its work
is now subject to three-monthly
reviews.
All this year the Marionette Theatre
has been touring Australia. It has been
seen by at least 140,000 people, and
takings (mostly at 20 cents a time)
have been $71,473 to November 1.
The Marionette Theatre also does
not gobble up money at the rate at
which, say, opera and ballet do. The
company has at times, and not infre-
quently, made money on individual
seasons.
Moreover, the Department of
External Affairs is a willing sponsor
for the comparatively more expensive
foreign tours. The Department met a
bill of $BO,OOO for the Theatre’s 26
weeks’ tour of 12 South-East Asian
countries last year, during which the
company played to more than 105,000
people in nine languages.
Whereas our ballet companies and
symphony orchestras as export com-
modities at the moment merely show
people that we can do work similar
to that done in many other countries,
which may surprise no one except our-
selves, the Marionette Theatre is a
genuine Australian creation, founded
and nurtured here by Mr. Scriven, but
linked to puppetry everywhere, and
with particular relevance to Asian
people.
What the Marionette Theatre of
Australia does lack is a board. It had
one, on which Mr. Scriven, the Arts
Council of Australia, the Elizabethan,
and Ampol were represented, but this
is now extinct. The position is com-
plicated by the fact that last June Mr.
Scriven was elected to the board of the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, the first
professional theatrical to join it. Mr.
Scriven said then that his purpose in
offering himself for election was that
he would “like to contribute some-
thing.” He felt he could help bridge
the gap between the board and per-
PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WALKER
Peter Scriven sitting at home in
Paddington, waiting. ..
formers. He said, too, he had a
particular interest in giving local drama
a push.
Since then, Mr. Scriven claims the
Trust has not paid him royalties due
for use of his play “The Explorers,” of
his name, and that of the Tintookies.
The “private fortune” he is supposed to
have is now irretrievably sunk in the
Marionette Theatre; puppet-theatre
equipment is constantly renewed, and it
would not be much use Mr. Scriven
claiming a head here, a body there.
The withholding of royalties has been
under a clause in the articles of the
Trust. It seems that this clause has
been interpreted by the present Trust
executive as meaning that no one on the
board of the Trust can profit from the
Trust’s activities. Mr. Scriven says that
before he stood he sought legal advice,
which reassured him that his living
would not be jeopardised. The clause
has not been tested in court and it is
only a matter of speculation how it
would be interpreted legally.
In everyday, commonsense terms it
would be interpreted as aimed at ensur-
ing that people who joined the board
of the Trust did not make a good thing
of it on their own behalf, although it
is somewhat obscure how they could go
about doing this; the arts are not easy
to make profits on. The clause does not,
of course, prevent board members, who
are not professionals in the arts, from
dabbling in artistic matters; stopping
this might have been more to the point.
Mr. Scriven’s play, of course, was
written before he joined the board. If
the Trust board felt there was a moral
as well as a legal dilemma here, it could
have solved it by refraining from further
use of Mr. Scriven’s play.
However, Mr. Scriven and his rela-
tions with the Trust are his own affair.


The future of the Marionette Theatre
is of wider implication, jnd Mr. Scriven
is deeply concerned with this. He feels
it should have a new board with wider
representation to give it the same sort
of standing as the ballet and opera com-
panies, and to ensure the future develop-
ment of the art to which he has devoted
his whole working life.
MEANWHILE, BACK ON
THE DRAWING BOARD
By DENIS O'BRIEN
IF IT has seemed to do little else since
its establishment last June, the Aus-
tralian Council for the Arts has con-
firmed the obvious: large veins of
artistic endeavor and ambition are
simply waiting for money to start them
pumping. Apart from the efforts the
Council itself is making to discover w r ho
wants what, it has been snowed with
applications for grants, subsidies, and
loans that would be frighteningly over-
whelming if they did not express a
surging purpose that has nothing to do
with the old Australian hedonist. A
great many of the applicants will just
have to satisfy themselves with the
opportunities offered by eisteddfods
and “Showcase,” but taken as a whole
they are encouraging evidence of the
desire for a policy to stimulate the arts
in the whole of Australia and not just
esoteric parts of it.
Looking at that aim in its correct
perspective obviously isn’t going to be
easy for the Council. There is already
enough evidence to suggest that most
of the groups and individuals who have
enjoyed handouts from the Elizabethan
Trust expect to be similarly treated by
the Council as a matter of routine, and
on what is almost certain to be a
cautious budget for several years (this
year it’s only a transitionary $1.5
million) that won’t leave a great deal
for adventurous expansion.
But allowing for the expedient pres-
sures of regional politics, the Council
should be expected to insist that culti-
vating a lot of little cultural backgardens
is not necessarily the best way of
assembling a national policy for the
arts. The Council will not be signifi-
cantly effective if it attempts to spread
its money thinly over a wide area.
Hearteningly, there are strong sug-
gestions that a body of opinion on the
Council favors the gradual development
of a national theatre based on Sydney
and Melbourne. Meanwhile, the com-
mittee it has appointed to advise it on
the overall requirements of drama is
making exhaustive explorations of the
whole field, and probably will submit
its report before the end of the year.
The film committee also has begun
meeting and is expected to report to
the Council by February. There is a
chance that some television film project
will be initiated with Council funds in
the first half of next year, but nothing
ambitious is likely before 1969/70.
The Council is not manifestly moving
with great speed, although it is being
thoroughly methodical. The end of its
first year of life is almost certain to be
greeted with criticisjn of its lack of
evidential progress, but Dr. Coombs,
who knows his way around the Public
Service, is probably aware that a sub-
mission for Federal money that is based
on sound research is likely to be more
beneficial than ambitious plans based
on theory.
However, a few stimulating adjectives
dropping from Council lips might help
to encourage public belief that the
organisation is bent on invigorating the
arts and not just maintaining the
status quo under another name.
The Elizabethan Trust, meanwhile,
has problems of its own. Until the
Council for the Arts has formulated
its policy, the Trust is virtually exist-
ing on sufferance, not really knowing
what its future role will be. In that
state of uncertainty it is still beset by
the administrative in-fighting which
resulted in its executive reshuffle
earlier this year, and which has now
forced its former executive director,
Stefan Haag, to take 12 weeks of
accumulated leave.
BALLET/JOHN CARGHER
WILLING SHOULDERS
“I WANT TO do something involving
today’s problems ... I am collecting
ideas on the fighting in Vietnam for
an anti-war ballet.” Thus spake, not
Zarathustra, but Garth Welch when he
returned last January from a year’s
study trip to the United States. Welch,
who is not only Australia’s leading
dancer but also its main and possibly
only budding choreographer with some
kind of foreseeable future, also declared
himself enamored with the anti-
balleticism of Martha Graham and
bored with Balanchine’s work.
In the ensuing ten months, Garth
Welch has produced one new ballet,
"Jeunesse,” which is a successful piece
of hack work in the Balanchine manner.
Possibly Sir Robert Helpmann’s
Garth Welch ... “My ultimate aim is
ballet administration”
squelch, “I strongly disapprove of the
Vietnam war being dragged into the
ballet,” had something to do with it,
for our budding choreographer is a
man with a practical turn of mind and
far removed from the usual tempera-
mental ballet star.
Last week he admitted that he has
his sights set on a more realistic future
than dancing, in which he ranks near
the very top by international standards.
He is quite frank about this: “My
ultimate aim is ballet administration.”
It is not too hard to read between the
lines that one day a benevolent Miss
Peggy Van Praagh will have to lean on
younger shoulders, preferably male.
A dancer’s professional life is limited,
if less so than a generation ago, when
a premier danseur was finished before
35. Garth Welch is now 32 and too
much of a realist to wait until his
batterie turns into “battery.” He is,
therefore, turning to choreography, one
of the most difficult art forms and one
which produces fewer greats than any
other.
Dancers are fond of spending hours
in attacking choreographers who do not
conform to their idea of what ballet
should be. They forget that but for
the diversity of ballet styles their art
form would have died long ago. Ballet
messiahs have announced the demise
of the classical ballet at regular inter-
vals since the days of Isadora Duncan.
It lives today simply because it has
absorbed the innovations of revolu-
tionary choreographers like Fokine,
Wigman, Laban, and the same Martha
Graham who is now, as always, busy
impressing younger choreographers like
Welch. This last of the original anti-
ballet brigade started like all the others
by preaching the turning in of the feet.
Now, half a century or more later,
Garth Welch returns from her studio
and states flatly: “Graham’s exercises
for turning feet out are better than
those laid down by Cecchetti.” For a
serious classical dancer to query the
teachings of Cecchetti is sacrilege
indeed.
But what Garth Welch is setting out
to attempt is but a further development
of things past. He will not be the first
to “put Martha Graham on point.” His
debut as a choreographer was two years
ago with “Illyria,” a slight trifle which
rapidly disappeared into limbo. Welch
readily admits its failings were those
of inexperience. Nevertheless, “Illyria”
already showed a natural ability: find-
ing new enchainements for the same
steps which have been used by major
and minor choreographers for years is
no easy matter. In this respect, “Illyria”
was a better start than some tremendous
coup de theatre such as Helpmann
sought in his early years and still
does. Welch’s second work, “Jeunesse,”
is no more than an extension of his
first.
It was produced at short notice to
replace an Alvin Ailey ballet which
failed to materialise and, in terms of
style, music, and subject, it had to fit
in with the company’s plans. He there-
fore sensibly scuttled those ideas which


k
ClNZ^Jil
m
i
!«■
You only need the four Cinzano Vermouths to make a
great party —Chic! Continental! Not too expensive either!
Superb in cocktails, Cinzano is utterly enjoyable straight
and very cold, "on-the-rocks" or with a little soda.
Add a professional touch by serving
CINZANO SWEET (red)
with a lemon peel.
CINZANO EXTRA DRY
with an olive.
CINZANO BIANCO
(sweet white) with a cherry.
CINZANO AMARO
(pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
CINZANO
HOUSE FOUNDED 1757
Write to Cinzano, Birmingham Street, Alexandria, N.S.W. 2015 for “Have A Cinzano Party" Folder.
\ SiHTdVtTTOR» s
Discover
&&NtiVlnbßi&
CHAMPAGNE
from the House of Cinzano
A fine champagne with a true continental
character at a surprisingly reasonable price.
Produced from the select wines of the
Hunter River Valley.
C 242
apparently did not meet with the
approval of at least one of his two
artistic directors. “Jeunesse” is more
professional, more varied, more
ambitious, and better entertainment
than “Illyria,” but it will not enjoy
a longer life than its predecessor.
Though its creator professes himself
satisfied (what else could he say during
its premiere season?), he is already
working on a work of a different color.
He is very secretive about its subject,
having, perhaps, learned not to spill
the beans before they are cooked. The
music will be William Schumann’s
"Symphony No. 6," which no one in
Australia has as yet heard; but anything
by Schumann could only be the basis
of a serious-story ballet. It is being
prepared for the pupils of the Aus-
tralian Ballet's school. If successful, it
will presumably join the repertoire of
the main company.
Garth Welch clearly is determined
to develop some kind of personal style
which will be very different from what
we have had from him to date. He
certainly has the will. It only remains
to be seen whether he also has the way.
ART/ELWYN LYNN
FAITH UPHELD
The Alcorso-Sekers Scholarship for
Sculpture. National Gallery of
Victoria, Melbourne.
THERE ARE politico - aesthetic
sermons all around for those who want
their faith in art prizes reaffirmed;
the Alcorso-Sekers is an exemplary
competition with preselected works
chosen by experienced men of catholic
tastes and judged by a mature trio, on
this occasion John Kaldor, Eric West-
. brook, and Robin Boyd, who gave the
$2OOO prize to Michael Young, recent
recipient of the Flotta Lauro Scholar-
ship, and here a clear winner all the
way.
Along with the general acclaim that
has accompanied the judgment goes
applause for a selection that indicates
what is happening in Australian sculp-
ture: sombre monumentality and
embattled forms replete with soulful
symbolism are no longer sculptural
criteria and, at the other pole, there
is no prevailing dogma that sculpture
should be clean, clear, bland, and
minimally structural. Sculpture has
become all things to all sculptors who
are defying dogmas and ringing the
changes with unprecedented alacrity
and conviction. Of course we have no
Walter de Maria rooms filled with
earth, no gigantic Christo sausages, and
none of that ‘‘participational art” of
furry enclosures to feel your way
through, but there are some bloody rags
rolled up by Sironi in an actual coffin,
a wrought-iron, bloody bull and
matador by John Lloyd, and Morten-
sen’s small, split, silver sphere with a
light inside to illuminate a biomorphie,
pulpy lump. It is the only meaningful
remnant of the biomorphie forms which


once proliferated in Melbourne, for
Tolley, Upton, and Corlett are deflated
by funkies and Duchampions.
It is Young’s Implications, Directions
which looks out of place; it is a square
aluminium bar twisted sharply at
various angles and stabbing, rather
than resting on, the floor. Its austerity,
structural simplicity, and smoothness
seem to fit it into the contemporaneous
mode of Lo Savio, Bladen, Le Witt,
Morris, and Judd, but it is really Roger
Butler’s Floating Black Rectangle,
splendidly poised on one leg, that
belongs to that mode, Young has
gone back to basic cubism, elongates
it, truncates it, and does what “Art
News” (October, 1968) says Clement
Meadmore is doing in New York—
making the plain block aspire to archi-
tecture without becoming simply archi-
tecture. “Meadmore,” says “Art
News,” “sculpts blocks like nobody else”
—so does Young. Maybe Young’s
assertive freedom lacks bulk, but the
wiry, space-teasing, curved rods of
Coleing nearby help point up Young’s
lively unpredictability and sheer easy
assurance. In the presence of Inge
King’s heavy cube subduing smaller
cubes, Last’s bony bronze metaphor,
and Jock Clutterback’s serrated, thrust-
ing pyramid that weds Mayan temples
to Cape Kennedy, the Young should
look austere, severe, and mechanical,
but it is like a poem by e.e. cummings
—direct, witty, swift, and No Big
Capital-Letter Profundities.
Quirky, satirical, whimsical pieces
demand equal, if not equally aesthetic,
attention: Clive Murray-White sets four
pipes against floor and wall (Fragments
of a Larger System) for the delectation
of Roy Grounds and others who want to
hide the plumbing, and his three
inverted steel bowls (Two Up and One
Down) look as if Martian warheads are
emerging from the floor; Ti Parks’ long
green board is suspended from the ceil-
ing at one end, which grows a mohair
scarf that comes to rest on a trolley
with four wheels (quickly readjusted by
old-hat aesthetes who accidentally kick
it). A similar collage of heterogeneous
materials occurs in Douglas Foster’s
Irene Goodnight, where a large, concer-
tina-ed tube winds in Freudian ecstasy
about a baby-pink cone. Some kind of
ecstasy is going on in Flugelman’s green
cube of fibreglass that has breasty bulges
as though someone was fighting to get
out —it is quite astonishing and one
suspects that there is a real sculptor
inside. Guy Stuart, whose painting sub-
jects are vats and bowls, shows 14 Non-
functional Soft Bowls made of pig-
mented wax, some half-full of black
sludge, some plastic wrapped and all
in a perspex box, like remnants or relics
of a science-fiction cataclysm.
There are, indeed, a lot of queasy
pieces about: Upton’s Immaculate Per-
ception with two blue boxes on a tube
combines biomorphic forms and Arp, but
like Peter Corlett he forgets that Arp
compressed biomorphic shapes; Corlett’s
Play Lady, whose legs become bulbous
breasts, is like those base-weighted toys:
no pushover, but rocks like white marble
bladders —not really the game one likes
to play. There is much more in this
excellent exhibition, such as Bill
Gregory’s Environmental Sculpture,
where he keeps the Duchampian grass
green (it’s artificial) under glass holding
clouds and their metal replicas, and
Robert Parr’s holed, stained, and com-
fortless Victorian bronze furniture . . .
and how pleasant it was to congratulate
Mr. Westbrook on being one of those
who selected the winner.
FILMS/BEVERIEY TIVEY
NEVER SO WITTY
Bedazzled. Director, Stanley Donen.
Fahrenheit 451. Director, Francois
Truffaut.
THE FAUST legend turns up in one
form or another in all folklore: after
all, it is a fundamental dream of all
humankind that some power god,
devil, or fairy godmother will offer
to grant our dearest wish. And since
most of us have some grasp of reality
despite our illusions, the uneasy
suspicion that we won’t really like it
when we’ve got it is equally funda-
mental.
Faust has been the inspiration of a
good many movies, but the legend has
surely never been treated with the
witty, blasphemous irreverence of
“Bedazzled,” which—though the direc-
tion is credited to Stanley Donen is
clearly almost entirely the work of
Peter Cook and Dudley Moore, who
are the stars, have collaborated on the
story line, and are responsible for the
screenplay and the musical score
respectively.
Dudley Moore plays the short-order
cook in a hamburger joint, so depressed
at the greyness of his life in general
and in particular his failure to win the
affections of the bored waitress that
Dudley
Moore,
Peter Cook,
and
Eleanor Bron
in
Bedazzled”
. .. stinging
wit; dirty,
knockabout
humor
he makes a singularly ineffectual suicide
attempt. Then appears the Devil
(played with seedy elegance by Peter
Cook) to offer him seven wishes in
exchange for a pact resigning his soul,
which Moore insists upon signing in
blood. (“You are a traditionalist,
aren’t you?” says Lucifer, scornfully.)
But the Devil being the michief-
maker he is, none of the wishes
though granted with a tongue-in-the-
cheek literalness —turns out quite the
way the poor dreamer hoped; and, in
the end, Faust decides it is better to
go to hell in your own way rather than
have Mephistopheles’ assistance.
This framework gives marvellous
opportunities to Cook and Moore, a
brilliant pair of contrasting-complemen-
tary comedians, to display their versa-
tility; and the whole screenplay, both
in its lines and in its sight-gags, com-
bines a stinging wit with a full-bodied,
dirty, knockabout humor. Additional
delights are the crisp, clean color
photography and a wonderfully funny
series of comic sketches by Eleanor
Bron in her various incarnations as
Moore’s dream-girl.
A much more subdued affair is
“Fahrenheit 451,” Truffaut’s listless
screen version of a fine story by Ray
Bradbury. This takes us to an all-too-
imaginable future in which a ferociously
paternalistic government, determined to
keep its citizens in a state of unques-
tioning contentment, bombards them
with inspirational television programs
and keeps a force of “Firemen” to
burn any books that may be discovered.
Some of the early scenes, with a red
fire-engine and its black-clad crew
sweeping through the streets, are effec-
tive enough, but the movie rapidly
loses momentum and becomes lifelessly
discursive. Oskar Werner, as the Fire-
man who begins reading the forbidden
books and finds himself outside the law,
seems too gentle and sensitive ever to
have been a brainwashed government
man in the first place; and the final
sequences among the exiled booklovers,


You will
save money
when your staff visits Melbourne
by booking them into
The Victoria
Hotel
in the heart
of the city.
Over sl| miiiion has been spent
on making The Victoria Melbourne’s
leading hotel for businessmen.
Modern accommodation in the heart
of the city costs from only $7.25
single, $12.50 double with full break-
fast. Free under-cover car parking
on premises and fully licensed
restaurant. The Victoria, Australia’s
largest hotel, is also the ideal venue
for sales conventions, company
dinners, cocktail parties. Please ask
for quote.
The Victoria Hotel
Melbourne
215 Little Collins St. Phone 63 0441.
Telegrams ‘Accommodation’ Melbourne.
Telex 31264
Or book through your Travel Agent.
V6B/14
Store Your Wine
ECONOMICALLY
From ag Low as $3.00 a Dozen
V
D
Crafted by a Skilled Cabinet Maker
Model “A” 23in. square x 9in. deep
3 dozen capacity. $10.50.
Model “B” 381 n. square x 9in. deep
7 dozen capacity. $23.00.
Model “C” 45in. square x 9in. deep
12 dozen capacity. $36.00.
Price includes tree assembly in the
Melbourne Metropolitan area.
Interstate and Country Clients
Follow our simple plans and assemble
your own units which will be forwarded
to your nearest railway station freight
payable by purchaser at destination.
Remittance must accompany AiLL
ORDERS.
Money-back guarantee within 30 days of
purchase if not fully satisfied.
WINERACK & CO.
19 EMERALD STREET,
WEST ESSENDON. 3040.
Phone 337-9841
If no answer 42-2606 Ext. 2
who go round endlessly reciting books
they have learnt by heart, make them
look more like a collection of prize
bores than the hope of humanity. A
steely, down-to-earth performance by
Cyril Cusack as the Fire Captain
brings an occasional flash of life to this
—oh, so sincere!—flop.
MUSIC/KENNETH ROBINS
SUNDAY-NIGHT VERVE
A SUNDAY-NIGHT concert to mark
the establishment of the Anzac
Memorial and Forest in Israel was
given by Stanford Robinson and the
ABC Sydney Symphony Orchestra.
Sartorially, the evening was diverting,
for the galleries were full of shorts and
open-necked shirts, and the body of the
hall contained the most formally
dressed audience seen at a concert in
the Sydney Town Hall since World
War 11, and very likely for 10 years
before that.
Apart from the sense of occasion which
divorced the atmosphere from the usual
free-for-all of a Sunday-night concert,
the music far transcended the pedestrian
or the slapdash. The success of the
concert was largely due to the soloist, a
young American pianist, Ann Schein,
who gave fascinating and technically
accurate readings of the Beethoven and
the Third Rachmaninoff.
Could it be that the Promethean
element in Beethoven is in the discard
at present, for the Overture of that
name, which opened the program, was
singularly lacking in defiance? With the
first chords of the Beethoven Concerto
it also seemed that we were in for a
gentle and rather guileless performance
with a distinctly chamber approach, but
it was not long before there was evidence
of great sensibility and, indeed, indi-
viduality at work. Stanford Robinson
was meticulous in following the personal
but far from idiosyncratic phrasing of
the soloist, and if the orchestral players
were somewhat tardy in their realisation
of what Mr. Robinson was asking of
them, it has to be remembered that it
was a hot Sunday night and the players
were at the end of a taxing season.
However, as the program progressed
the spirit asserted itself and the flesh
gained in strength, for the sounds from
the keyboard would have intrigued the
most jaded of musicians.
The Third Rachmaninoff Concerto
has never achieved the popularity of the
Second, but when it gets a performance
which holds its rather diffuse elements
together it can have a tremendous impact.
It is a wonderful vehicle for pianists,
and those who can get round the notes
find great satisfaction in performing it.
Miss Schein . turned on a spectacular
display of pyrotechnics, pushing tempos
at times to a point where in the hands
of a lesser pianist a scramble would
have been inevitable. As it was, there
was no faltering and a minimum of
smudging, and the effect was quite elec-
trifying, although the big climaxes
Pianist Ann Schein. .. fireworks
lacked the punch a more muscular
pianist would have brought to them.
Intonation was a problem throughout
the evening and the usually impeccable
reed section seemed to be in trouble
with their lower registers, which could
have been the product of the first real
summer weather with which the players
have had to contend.
THEATRE/DENIS O'BRIEN
FAMILIAR CHOCOLATES
FOR THE million Australians to whom
theatre in Australia means a J. C. Wil-
liamson show, the prospects for 1969
are being assembled in a familiar
chocolate box. Having turned in a
1967/68 net profit of $319,358, The Firm
is not about to rock its recovering boat
by taking on anything too unconven-
tional. Shows which will occupy Wil-
liamson theatres for most of next year
appear safely bland and are probably
more representative of its conservative
image than for several years. There are
signs, too, that The Firm is becoming
more of a theatrical entrepreneur than
an initiative producer: of the 1969
program so far revealed, only two shows
• the U.S. musicals “I Do, I Do” and
“She Loves Me” call for a William-
son style and cast; for the others, the
firm will virtually only act as landlord.
“The Black and White Minstrels” and
the musical “Marne' 1 will continue on
circuit; there will be the Elizabethan
opera season and a visit by a Russian
ballet company; Peter Scriven’s “Tin-
tookies” will reappear; Joyce Grenfell is
booked for a tour; and a Folies Bergere
company is pencilled to open at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, about September-
October.
Williamson’s next year also will re-
enter the field of concert promotion for
short visits by the New Christy
Minstrels, the Jacques Loussier jazz trio,
and the Little Singers of Tokyo. But
unless suggestions that The Firm is
negotiating for a visit by a Royal
Shakespeare company from Stratford
are true, the program for 1969 seems
curiously unexciting.


You never know what could crop up!
Cover yourself with a
Diners Club Card
Because you can’t be certain how much
you need, you need a Diners Club Card.
It represents hard cash. Covers you for
anything and everything that takes your
fancy. Diners Club cards are accepted
everywhere from Melbourne right around
the world. You can buy the honeymoon
suite at the Hilton, Greek Rugs from The
Islands, or the whole of New York! With-
out worrying over other countries’ curren-
cies. Food, fares, accommodation, gifts
a Diners Club card covers the lot. If you
want to find out more about how a Diners
Club card is much more convenient to
carry than cash, fill in the form. We’ll send
you everything you need to know, includ-
ing how to join.
DINERS CLUB PTY. LTD.
P.O. BOX 5088, Melbourne, 3001
Please send me full particulars on
Diners Club membership.
Name.
Occupation
Address.
0244
<D
DINERS CLUB:
The card for the man on the movel
Communicating
SOUTHERN SUBVERSION?
THE ABC has announced executive
changes in two of its current-affairs
television programs. New Zealander
Allan Martin is to become executive
producer of “Four Corners,” and New
Zealander Bruce Buchanan is to come
from Perth to succeed him as executive
producer of “This Day Tonight.” All
of this would seem to indicate that the
ABC’s critics next year will have to
shift their attack by concerning them-
selves less about subversive Left-wingers
and more about tricky Kiwis.
MILK, HONEY —AND SPACE
PROJECTING Australia abroad as a
full-of-sunshine land of goodness and
picture-postcard prettiness is one way to
attract tourists, but it is a style that
doesn’t satisfy Gerard Herbst, of Mel-
bourne. Mr. Herbst is senior lecturer in
industrial design at the Royal Melbourne
Institute of Technology, and this week
is exhibiting a display of tourist posters
that will form the basis of a submission
to Canberra for a change in the method
of advertising Australia in other
countries.
The 20 posters are the work of Mr.
Herbst’s second, third, and fourth year
students and they are on display at the
Victorian Tourist Bureau offices in
Collins Street, Melbourne. Herbst
believes Australia relies too much on
photographs and banal claims about
affluent living and fails to draw on the
unique attractions of the country.
“Graphic art can synthesise the message
and communicate far more quickly and
directly than words or photographs.
These posters help to express what is
unique to Australia; they talk of things
that travellers cannot get elsewhere.”
The exhibition, shown under the
title “Tour Australie,” is designed to
depict Australia’s sense of space, silence,
color, action, and culture. “Look at this
one,” said the Swiss-born Herbst, point-
ing to a brightly colored poster entitled
“Ninety Miles of Uninterrupted Beach.”
“That says something. In Europe, 90
miles would see you through three
countries.”
DRAGGING A RESPONSE
THE FIRST section of Peter Brook’s
new book, “The Empty Space,” is
called The Deadly Theatre: it’s a
pretty accurate description of the
theatre we know, and it notes, along
with deadly writing, acting, and direc-
tion, the deadly spectator who “enjoys
a lack of intensity and even a lack of
entertainment,” preferring theatre that
is respectable and undemanding.
A valuable lesson in what makes a
living audience is to be learned from
the Purple Onion. It is probably the
only theatre in Sydney (it describes
as a “revue coffee shop”) where
the audience expresses its opinion
loudly, is intensely involved in the
show, dances in the intervals, and gener-
ally treats the premises as if it feels
quite as comfortable in them as it does
at home.
The shows are built up of recorded
material centred on the personality of
Beatrice, the male owner, and mimed
by a small all-male cast. The current
show, “A Streetcar Named Beatrice,”
begins with a grand-guignol ballet intro-
duction, in which Stanley rapes Stella
over a garbage-bin. Thereafter, musical
numbers, snatches of Tennessee Wil-
liams’ dialogue, fragments of allied
“Southern” material like “Gone With
The Wind,” and a parody of the play’s
plot are all haphazardly mixed in a
resounding camp treatment of the play.
Whether the show is good or bad, its
audience is committed to it. At the
Onion the audience is largely made up
of what might be euphemistically called
“a fixed social group” who regard the
show as an expression of collective taste.
The show is a focus, reassuring the
group of its identity. What is wanted
is loud, emotional music, camp humor,
and elaborate drag. What results is an
articulate, interested audience getting
what it wants in a theatre.
SPEEDY POPULARITY
ON THE DAY last week when Aus-
tralian printers were asking Canberra
for help against the competition
created by Australian publishers sending
their printing orders to duty-free Asian
cities, the first of the 55,000 copies of a
book by Miss Sue Rhodes, “And When
She Was Bad She Was Popular,” came
off the presses of a local printer.
The publishers, Sun Books, believe
that this is the largest single first
printing order for a paperback here and
believe also that the handling of it by
New Century Press, of Sydney, who
received the complete manuscript only
four weeks ago, is something of a
record. The publishers, who are among
those who patronise Hong Kong and
other Asian printers, admit they could
not have got the job done in Asia and
the books back here as quickly.
It seems a splendid effort, although
whether Miss Rhodes’ outpourings are
worth it is another question; one might
guess that if took her rather less time
to write the book than it took the
printers to print it.
OVERCROWDED BUS
FROM LAST WEEK’S newspapers we
learnt that Lord Willis has approached
Julie Andrews to play the lead in the
long-projected Australian film “Last
Bus to Banjo Creek,” while Rod Taylor
is seeking Audrey Hepburn for the
same part. Perhaps Richard Burton has
asked Elizabeth Taylor.


Books
THE PICK-A-BOX
SCHOOL OF
ENGLISH LIT.
By TERRY COLLITS
The Victorian Debate. Raymond Chap-
man. Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
$6.30.
MR. CHAPMAN is a nice man, that
is clear. No one could put down his
book with a feeling that he had been
offended, or annoyed, or even chal-
lenged in any attitude he holds dear.
The title, “The Victorian Debate,”
might at first seem worrying, but, no
worries! Mr. Chapman scrupulously
ignores his title and suppresses any-
thing that might be controversial. The
book, we are told, is a sort of back-
ground book, part of a larger series on
Literature and Society, designed to meet
the recent “broadening in the syllabuses
for university courses in English and
modern languages.” The series looks
like being one that will advance by
geometrical progression, the plan being
to “cover” five countries “in the first
instance,” with “six to eight books
devoted to each country”; and what
vistas stretch out beyond the “first
instance,” who can tell? All we can do,
I guess, is examine the quality of this
present volume, modestly wondering
about what lies ahead, what this “broad-
ening” portends for literary studies.
The first thing to say is that Mr.
Chapman is not a literary critic, and his
book has no relationship, or only dis-
tant, to literary criticism. Though the
other blurb (the one inside the front
cover, not the general statement on the
back) assures us that the book is “not
merely a study of literature for its docu-
mentary value,” but that Mr. Chapman
sometimes disputes “the more established
judgments,” his disputing being in the
form of light chat, personal taste, and
private likings. Thus, Dickens is one of
his favorites; while Thackeray, who can
sometimes moralise “tediously and
repetitively,” we might infer, is not. If
we were interested in Mr. Chapman’s
personal likings, we could possibly make
further inferences, though this would be
hard. In fact, it is part of the unoffend-
ing nature of this book that it refrains
from judgment.
Just about everyone who puts pen to
paper in this period gets a generous
hearing; his works are listed, dated, and
summarised, and he is labelled; he is
brought into some sort of relationship
with some general current of thought of
the period—religious, social, socio-
political, or politico-religious—and then,
on to someone else! Hundreds and hun-
dreds of books are “covered,” dozens
and dozens of writers. At this point
another thought comes: what if someone
should decide to read all the volumes
in this series on Literature and Society?
Thousands upon thousands of titles,
names, facts, all linked up! The mind
grows pale at that thought.
It is a natural activity of a mind that
has contemplated many books to wonder
about the relationships between them.
It is also natural, if a man has res-
ponded to something in a work of
literature, for him to consider, in differ-
ent ways, the civilisation out of which
that work grew. These are natural, and,
potentially at least, profitable directions
for one’s thinking about literature' to
take, and consequently ought to be
encouraged in university courses in
literature.
But to be justified, at that level, they
must be founded on a discipline, or
else remain as mental activities suitable,
perhaps, for Pick-a-Box, but not much
else. And discipline is precisely what
this book lacks. It is an amateur pro-
duction, neither encouraging nor being
founded itself on thought. Mr. Chapman
is a phenomenon of our time, straddling
a number of “fields” without entering
deeply into any one. If we described him
as a literary historian, the first blurs
around that description would relate -to
his rather inexact sense of what he is
doing, history-wise.
The book follows a common enough
procedure—literature is “set-against” its
“background.” Thus, we get a few chap-
ters of social background, then chapters
on writers. It is obscure whether the
juxtaposition is meant to illuminate
history or the literature; or whether both
are mutually illuminating. Simply, a sort
of potted social history is put alongside
the summaries of novels, etc., without
much sense of their relatedness. There is
no awareness that the feeling created in
a living work of literature might prove
to tell us something about history. Mr.
Chapman comes to his reading with the
“social background” already planted in
his mind. On what his “social back-
ground” is based remains, largely, a
mystery.
The chapters on “The Victorian Age”
and “Victorian Ideas” bring together a
wide variety of phenomena—everything
is interesting. Thus, we learn about
clothing and furniture, food, drink, and
Acts of Parliament, men’s moustaches
and side-burns. Typical of the nature
of Mr. Chapman’s synthesising habits
of mind is this kind of perception: “For
most of the period, the men dressed
severely and sombrely. Tight trousers
confirmed the general air of constraint.”
The superficiality, the non-selective-
ness, and the abdication from judgment
and discrimination about the writers
considered, lead to some extraordinary-
formulations about them. Mr. Chapman
likes Dickens, yet he manages to quote,
approvingly, some of Dickens’ most
labored social outbursts. The social bent
of the book leads him to Dickens
“indictment” of society for the death
of Little Jo in “Bleak House” yet
the sentimentality of Dickens’ looking
at the death is ignored, which might
have taken Mr. Chapman a long way
toward actually grasping something in
the “Victorian Consciousness.” Of
course, Dickens can be far more pro-
found in his analysis of society than
this sort of failing suggests. But, as
with all the studies of individual
writers, the felt lack of a stringent dis-
cipline in reading leads to this kind
of glibness: “Dickens had not the in-
tellectual power of Arnold or Ruskin,
Browning or George Eliot.”
Just what definition of “intellectual
power” that collection is meant to evoke
remains obscure and the chapters
on Ruskin or Browning do nothing to
illuminate what advantages they had
that Dickens was without. It is clearly
a popular idea of Dickens that lies
behind the remark, some orthodoxy that
must, for us, remain obscure. And it
is fair to say, I think, that the glibness
here is characteristic.
By giving vague, general labels to
things, the .most amazing conclusions
are reached: thus Gwendolen Harleth
suffers “in a Joycean world,” while
Daniel Deronda is termed “a more
compliant Stephen Dedalus.” Such
loosenesses are offered, blandly, then
left; proceeding from a careless mode
of thinking they exist locally for what
they are worth, and are then forgot-
ten. Another interesting manifestation
of Mr. Chapman’s kind of private frame
of reference is his use of the word
“ironically” a favorite word, yet
very rarely does it become clear in
what the irony consists. Thus, George
Eliot’s marriage, toward the end of her
life, to John Cross, is called “an ironic
conclusion to the irony of her adult
years”?
The .most horrifying aspect of this
book is the suggestion it brings of what
literary studies could become, or, per-
haps, have already become in parts of
the world. There are all sorts of poten-
tial dangers and aberrations inherent in
the teaching of literature, which has
probably resulted in many teachers,
either not knowing exactly what they
are doing, or else, feeling that their
own private sense of what, say, “Eng-
lish” is, probably ha- little in common
with many other “professional” atti-
tudes. A book such as this one, simply
ignores the difficulties implied in the
matter of literary judgment; and re-
places the discipline needed to achieve
a true sense of literature with a kind
of learning, knowledge. Which gives
some warning that it might not be
completely unimaginable that English
or Modern Language studies could,
quite naturally, slide- after the Classics
into obscurity.
GENETS WEIRD WORLD
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Jean Genet. Philip Thody. Hamilton.
$4.45.
GENET WAS once a male prostitute
and a self-confessed petty criminal. His
formative years were spent in the com-
pany of crooks and pimps, inside and
out of those pre-war French vice-
factories tne so-called reformatories.


His first novel, written in jail on brown-
paper bags and hidden in his cell, was
discovered, confiscated, and destroyed
by a warder. Genet then quietly
wrote “Our Lady of the Flowers” all
over again. Only a last-minute
operation started by France’s leading
literary figures ultimately saved him
from life imprisonment as a declared
habitual criminal.
Genet was abandoned in the gutter
by some apparently unrepentant Mag-
dalene. He was originally what his
birth made him. What he has become
one of the recognised writers of our
time, even if still one of the strangest
figures is all his own (if not entirely
unaided) work. The aid came mainly
from the PR efforts of Sartre (and
Cocteau) epitomised by Philip Toyn-
bee’s remark that Genet was rather like
“the bearded lady in the tent” to
Sartre’s “voluble huckster outside.”
Sartre calls him “Saint Genet,” the
martyr, and neither irony nor blas-
phemy is intended. And Cocteau once
stated, “Sooner or later it will have
to be recognised that he is a moralist.”
For, in ? strange inverted manner, it
could be argued that he delves so far
down into the abysses info which society
had pushed him, grovelling so com-
pletely in his own private hell, that,
without necessarily even intending to,
his novels have become as cautionary in
their message as any skull-rattling
medieval mystery or miracle play.
In his first book he glories in the
implied worship of masculine beauty,
which is the fountainhead of homo-
sexuality, while at the same time
grimacingly revealing the handful of
black ashes which he already knows is
all its inherent sterility will ever reap
for him. In the second, “The Miracle
of the Rose,” he does the same sort
of thing for the rigid hierarchy of
criminals, and manages to convey that
it is nothing but a grotesque shadow-
cabinet parodying our own perhaps
equally artificial foundations. When he
praises Evil, it is with such Swiftian
excess and ridicule that its effect is of
condemnation.
But, of course, I must pause here to
confess that I am discussing books I am
not supposed to have read. For we are
faced with another of those crazy
anomalies: Philip Thody’s most impor-
tant scientific study, dealing in detail
with each of the author’s major works,
has been released with liberal quota-
tions, both in the original French and
in an English translation, while the
actual novels in question are banned in
this country. I must also now own to
having read some of them without any
noticeable harmful effects, not to
mention having witnessed Jimmy Shar-
man’s memorable shoestring production
of “The Maids” in drag at the Wayside
Chapel.
Anyone with the stamina to wade
through a Genet just for the erotica
deserves anything he can get out of it.
Why Violette Leduc’s lesbian loves
can now be described in such graphic
terms in an unexpurgated “Ravages,”
but not Genet’s, is probably something
not even the censors could explain
satisfactorily. Except that Genet’s is
the greater talent.
Ultimately it all should depend on
the quality of the creative writing, and
Genet’s is the distilled essence of purest
literature complex, highly poetic
verbal images. His use of language is
quite extraordinary, his phrases rise
and fall as melodiously as music, as
rhythmically as verse. He often moves
in a visionary world of words rather
as Bosch moved in a visionary world of
paint, projecting his own subconscious
as a bizarre and wonderful wasteland, a
delirious desert full of nightmarish
phantom flowers. Yet he knows exactly
when to bre.ak the flow with passages
of the starkest realism.
As Genet says himself, “Few are the
moments when I do not have a vision,
Genet ... death and violence
or some horrifying perception of human
beings and events ... I liberate myself
by declaiming poems that leave my
mind clarified ... I give up my desire.
I, too, am already beyond that. I can
keep dying until my death.” Perhaps
this is why Genet has also now stated
that he will write no more novels, only
plays. He has written what he needed
to write. Like Dostoevsky, he has
always been exploring the same basic
theme. Unless he is doing “a Melba,”
or what Sartre calls his “campy virgin”
act, it is possible that, unlike most
authors, he knows when to ‘shut up;
that is, when he has nothing further to
say. He, has risen out of his autistic
entombment, has established contact.
Philip Thody examines all these
points and many others, quoting freely
from Sartre’s earlier appraisal but
without overlapping much, as his own
critical approach is rather differently
angled. His style is more detached, less
overtly literary than Sartre’s, but no
less erudite. He has more distance than
that original existentialist, he shows no
political bias and no moral one, either.
Like Sartre, he traces Genet’s whole
problem back to his mother’s rejection,
which he equates with the world’s
rejection. Genet merely enacted the
psychodramatic role he had already
seen in the eye of his beholders.
In discussing “Our Lady of the
Flowers,” Thody is careful to commend
Genet for his originality and honesty
in the treatment of homosexuality, see-
ing it in turn as deliberately farcical
and deeply tragic, showing it both
from its glamorous viewpoint (the
exotic flouting of conventionality) and,
cynically, from its opposite aspect of
betrayal and aridity. (Divine goes to
the mirror and sees “an old faded
fairy” whose only lovers must be paid.)
This study even compares the figure
of Divine with Charlus in proletarian
guise, battling for “her” rights in a
more brutal setting than Proust’s, in a
time treatment that parallels Faulk-
ner’s.
Genet, as this work also proves, uses
a private obsession his own war
with the world to point up a public
malaise the wars of other minority
groups. Particularly interesting and
timely, in this respect, is Thody’s dis-
cussion of Genet’s controversial play
“The Blacks,” in which the color
problem is given the same sort of
inverted topsy-turvy examination as
homosexuality or jailbird-watching. He
sees Genet as identifying himself, as
the born outcast, with the Negro who
is a fellow-underdog.
First produced in Paf'is in 1959 by
Roger Blin, the actors were all African
Negroes. However, some of them appear
to be whites, but their masks are
removed and they are shown to be
black. (Color is as color does?) Genet
has been attacked by many front-rank
experts for this play, but Thody argues
that it may have been misunderstood.
Some French critics have seen it as
apparently advocating a Black Moslem
code of violence. But death and
violence, as Thody points out, are
among the recurrent themes of all
Genet’s works —to each its own
funeral. And here it could also be
argued that the writer is simply hold-
ing up a mirror and getting back not
simply a reflection of himself but of
our own times.
This is a well-argued and well-
written critical appraisal, which should
be read by anyone seriously interested
in Genet as novelist and playwright. It
is not necessary to be familiar with all
the works it discusses, which is just as
well, for only heaven and the censor
knows when, or if, such familiarity will
become possible.
LAWSON AS A RACIST
By NANCY KEESING
Henry Lawson Among Maoris. W. H.
Pearson. Australian National Univer-
sity Press. $5.00.
THIS BOOK is not a capricious
debunking of a national hero but it
does throw a timely douche of cold
water on to some of the hotter smoke
of the Lawson myth. Lawson, as
Stephen Murray Smith has very sen-
sibly said: “was in fact an inveterate
romancer not in his stories which


Melbourne
University Union
Director of
University Theatre
The Board of Melbourne Uni-
versity Union invite applications
for appointment to a new post of
Director of university theatre.
It is hoped that applicants will
have considerable production ex-
perience and some knowledge of
the special demands of university
theatre.
The Director will be expected to
promote and co-ordinate univer-
sity dramatic activity, establish
a theatre workshop and maintain
contact with apropriate univer-
sity departments. He will deal
with all theatre bookings and will
be the licence holder and senior
executive in charge of the Union
and Guild Theatres, assisted by
a technical manager who is res-
ponsible for the proper technical
functioning of both theatres.
Salary: $6OOO per annum.
Further information may be
obtained from the Warden,
Union House, University of Mel-
bourne, Parkville, Victoria, 3052,
to whom applications, with the
names of two referees should be
sent by November 29th, 1968.
SYDNEY 1810
—Limited Edition Prints—
Ships and buildings of Sydney Cove
more than 150 years ago offer fas-
cinating contrast to today. These
four charming lithographic views are
after the aquatints by J. Eyre.
Distinctive decoration in home, office
and club.
$20.00 the set or $6.00 each print
(12 x 18in.).
Free catalogue of these and other
historical Australian charts, ship
prints available.
Avon Print Pty. Limited
P.O. Box 208, Potts Point
N.S.W. 2011
ST. GODRIC’S COLLEGE
2 Arkwright Road,
Hamp&tead, London,
N.W.3. ENGLAND
St. Gddric's, the largest Secretarial,
Language and Administrative Resi-
dential College for Girls of its kind
in Britain, offers a wide range of
courses for a secretarial career.
New terms start January 7 and
April 22, 1969.
Please write to the Registrar for a
prospectus.
. . . are often austere to the point of
classicism . . . but in retelling the story
of his own life . . . here is a man
looking for a kind of tragic reassurance
in tragedy. His early life was probably
neither as romantic nor as tragic as he
later set out to make it appear.” Yet,
for many wrong reasons, which often
overshadow the right reasons, unques-
tioning hero worship of Lawson
continues.
Apart from his genius, where Lawson
was different, and to be pitied and
forgiven much, was in his deafness,
which few critics sufficiently take into
account, although everyone mentions it.
I doubt if Pearson takes this disability
enough into account, but otherwise his
book is admirable.
Pearson is a highly qualified New
Zealand academic, at present Senior
Research Fellow at the Department of
Pacific History of the Australian
National University. His starting point
for this book is Lawson’s “A Daughter
of Maoriland,” which Cecil Mann
included in “Henry Lawson’s Best
Stories,” but which always seemed to
me one of his worst. In it Lawson
trundled out his big guns to kill a
mouse in the shape of a. Maori school-
girl and in the process appeared to be
mean-minded and lacking insight.
Pearson rates “A Daughter of Maori-
land” poorly. Its moral, he says, is: “that
it is useless to extend mateship to a
people who don’t recognise the code;
the brotherhood of man is a closed shop,
no Maoris need apply. The story is, to
this extent, a demonstration of failure,
not only in Lawson but also in the
philosophy he propagated.” Therefore,
in his scholarly but very readable book,
Pearson sets out to investigate the
reasons behind Lawson’s “uncompassion-
ate and partisan” approach by tracing
the historical and social background to
the story and by giving judicious
accounts of the New Zealand Native
Schools experiment and of Lawson’s
teaching experience at Mangamaunu for
a few months in 1897.
The history of the school where
Lawson taught is written fully—there
are accounts of his predecessors there
and of his successors. This is a fair pro-
cedure, because it shows that Lawson’s
pedagogic difficulties were not easily
solved —he was not the only failure,
although, as it happens, one of the most
successful teachers at Mangamaunu also
seems to have had drinking problems.
Mangamaunu is an area whose people
had a history of some three centuries of
invasion and disaster before white
settlement. In Lawson’s day poverty pre-
vailed and consumption raged, despite
which the traditional leaders retained
much of their dignity and generosity
and actively sought education for their
children.
Into this place came Lawson, full
of disillusion with Australia and (see
“The Writer’s Dream” discussed fully
by Pearson) of bombastic hope for “a
spot where the scene was fair.” Lawson,
for his reasons, and his wife, for her’s,
wanted a fresh start. Neither was the
sort of ideal teacher sought for native
schools, and, in the event, neither could
surmount their defects in Mangamaunu.
That Lawson was very much a man
of his times was both a strength and
weakness of his work. Pearson analyses
Lawson’s racism in his first chapter—a
dispassionate investigation which may
infuriate the “My Lawson, right or
wrong” school, but the conclusions are
not surprising. Neither is it surprising to
find a writer as impetuously and irra-
tionally romantic as Lawson being dis-
illusioned out of all proportion when
his vision of the noble savage yields to
disappointing reality.
Mere Jacob (August in Lawson’s
story) was a far-from-perfect girl, but
her misfortunes and imperfections
deserved fairer treatment than “A
Daughter of Maoriland” afforded, and
Mr. Pearson offers her memory (she
died years ago) the vindication it
deserves.
HARD-EDGE OR SOFT?
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
Collected Shorter Poems. Ezra Pound.
Faber. $4.30.
Poems and Antipoems. Nicanor Parra.
Jonathan Cape. $1.70.
The Shadow Dance. Denise Levertov.
Jonathan Cape. $3.30.
HAVING RECENTLY reviewed a
study of Pound on these pages I thought
it might be more interesting to quote
extensively from a Review of Pound’s
“Personae” published in The Bulletin in
1910. This volume of “Collected
Shorter Poems” is in fact the volume
previously published under the title
“Personae,” although a large number of
poems have been added since then.
The nameless reviewer in 1910 had
the following things to say about this
volume:
“One of the most promising of the
younger poets is Ezra Pound, an Ameri-
can of English descent, who is now living
in England. He has made a special study
of Provencal literature, and lectured
upon it in London. It is stated that he
had published privately two books of
verse and burned two novels and three
hundred sonnets before he was 21. The
burning prejudiced us in his favor before
reading ‘Personae,’ which was pub-
lished last year, when the author was
23. It is a slim volume, but so unusual
in character as to compel attention.
The audacity of Youth eager to be
heard has broken out in strange modes
of expression, with antique English
words and scraps from various other
languages to accentuate his difference.
Only an American would address
Apollo as ‘Polio Phoibee, old tinpan
you,’ in a serious poem. His lines run
to all lengths and sometimes into prose.
The verse does not trickle smoothly
anywhere; it is jagged, abrupt, explo-
sive. But it is concerned with life; it is
very much in earnest, and there •is a


sense of power about it. In his ‘Revolt
against the crepuscular spirit in modem
poetry’ he shouts his challenge:
‘I would shake off the lethargy of
this our time and give
For shadows shapes of power
For dreams men/ ”
The 1910 reviewer then went on to
quote a number of other passages from
Pound with various degrees of
approval. Pound was in revolt against
the Celtic Twilight of the time and he
called the volume “Personae” because
he wanted to stress men rather than
dreams.
Pound’s role as a humorous poet is
often forgotten. Here is a quote from
“The Charge of the Bread Brigade”:
Half a loaf, half a loaf,
Half a loaf? Um-hum?
Down through the vale of gloom
Slouched the ten million.
Onward th’ ’ungry blokes,
Crackin’ their smutty jokes!
We’ll send ’em mouchin’ ’ome,
Damn the ten million!
It could be said that poetry oscillates
from periods when poets are more con-
cerned with dreams and shadows to
periods when poets are concerned with
men and hard outlines. Milton and
Tennyson are probably the greatest of
the crepuscular poets. Wordsworth and
Pope (perhaps an unlikely pairing), on
the other hand, are on the side of the
men.
Nicanor Parra is clearly on the same
side. Pablo Neruda, the famous
Chilean poet, has described his country-
man Parra as “one of the great names
in the literature of our language.” This
is the first bi-lingual edition of Parra’s
poetry available in this country. Parra,
a Professor of Theoretical Physics, in
his poems is like a very agile and
quick-witted butterfly. He writes
indolently, sensually, then explodes in
a rapid burst of energy. He writes
passionately, then stands outside his
poetry and laughs at it. “Snow,” a
poem about the last words of Pushkin
when he was assassinated, unwinds
with relentless precision and passionate
irony. I would like to quote it, only it
would take up too much space. It has
some of the stylistic devices of concrete
poetry, but unlike much concrete
poetry the experimentation does not
exclude feeling and humanity.
Parra has an individual voice, which
is probably an important voice. This
collection has 29 poems, but one feels
that a larger, more comprehensive
selection is needed to give the full
range of such a noet.
He is a poet with his pants down, a
self-described anti-poet. This brief
quotation is v an example of his
unexpected shifts of tone.
Then where could I go!
At that hour the shops were shut;
I thought of a slice of onion Vd seen
during dinner
And of the abyss that separates us
from the other abysses.
If Pound and Parra may be
described as hard-edged and concerned
people, Denise Levertov might be
described as belonging to the soft-
edged and crepuscular line of poetry.
Many of the poems have humanist
concerns, such as horror at the war in
Vietnam; however, the language is
subjective and introspective.
The most sustained piece in her
book is a series of poems about the
death of her sister. These poems,
perhaps because they centre on a
concrete subject, have more coherence
than some of the shorter lyrics which
are so vague and wispish as to verge
on the invisible. In some of the
Vietnam poems the crude thud of the
moralist gets the better of a poet whose
sensitivity and fragility is normally
unflappable. In others such as the poem
about the woman whose eyelids were
destroyed by napalm, poetry and indig-
nation achieve a successful marriage,
The woman, whose relatives have given
her a blanket to cover her eyes, is
speaking:
Hands over my eyes 1 see
blood and the little bones;
or when a blanket covers
the sockets I see the
weave; at night the glare softens
but I have power now
to see there is only grey
on grey.
The Vagabond
Time was, love’s cobweb soiled those rooms.
The layered strands defined a fate
he ached to quit. He packed his heart,
and left the house. He shut the gate.
Behind him, still the still rose sleeps,
the clocks tick peace, an aunt lisps grace,
the mesh he tore knits whole again.
Outside, the wild tomorrows race.
Outside, time’s costly typhoons lash;
he breasts their cheapness as he must,
sued by their sweet and evil rhymes,
stung by their vile and vital dust.
Who fossicks there learns pain is pain,
that decades pass, and winter’s cold;
only the ordained lucky die:
the rest and he drag on, grow old.
Grow old! Long last, I come again
to face the twilight house and find
no seeming change. The lights are lit.
His shadow paces on the blind.
It frets and strives, a something taxed
by nets of thought. Escape or wait?
The blind goes black. A door is slammed.
There is his hand upon the gate.
See, his unrusted, silly eyes N
burn as they seem to turn to me
beneath the street-lamp standing there
those eyes too young and clear to see.
He shuts the gate. “Oh, not that way!”
Mine is a voice that he must know.
He moves: he will not hear himself.
Into time’s storm I watch me go.
HAL PORTER


Letters
Meanwhile in Vietnam
Congratulations on printing John P.
Roche’s stimulating, tough-minded, and
controversial article “Meanwhile in
Vietnam” (8., November 16). It is
revealing to note the frustrations of
a great democracy trying to fight a
limited war in Asia with the absence
of a “felt” enemy to engage the public
back home and this should be an
object-lesson to all would-be interven-
tionists here.
Yet I am surprised that someone like
Roche, who has devoted such time and
energy to the study of Vietnam, should
make so elementary an error about
the critics of the Vietnam War. When
people like Eugene McCarthy and even
more the followers of Robert Kennedy
say “No More Vietnams” they do not
mean no more U.S. involvement or
commitments anywhere. If they did,
this would indeed represent either a
withdrawal to isolationism or a
regression to a Dulles-like massive
retaliation policy.
What the critics mean is “no more
U.S. intervention in situations like that
of South Vietnam”: where authoritarian
but incapable (and I stress incapable)
regimes, essentially unresponsive to
popular attitudes, are unable to cope
with better-organised and more highly
motivated insurgents drawing support
from rural and remote areas.
J. L. S. Girling
Hughes, A.C.T.
People for Violets
The students’ letter (8., November
9) supposedly from People for Violence
read more like People for Violets to
me. Your cheek must be bulging with
tongue to have published something
only flower people could have written.
/. Lockerby
East Melbourne, Vic.
I was very intrigued with the letter
to the Bulletin signed vice-chairman
&c., M. U. People for Violence. On
commenting on it I was told by my
daughter that the letter was the work
of some university students who
apparently think it is a great joke to
have hoaxed(?) you. You may already
have heard this, but I thought I would
give you the tip as I have no time
whatever for the students.
H. J. Richmond
Caulfield North, Vic.
Aborigines in politics
In a recent article by Frank Roberts,
“Aborigines in Politics” (8., October
19), commenting on the 1967 Inter-
racial Seminar in Townsville, he said
“abysmal” aptly described the com-
munication of the addresses and dis-
cussions to the general public. Our
committee shares his concern that this
valuable material should reach a wide
audience. We incurred considerable
expense in publishing the proceedings,
and already many copies have been
distributed to people sharing respon-
sibility for shaping policy affecting
Aborigines and Islanders. Many copies
have been sold to libraries and
individuals throughout Australia.
Copies of the proceedings are still
available at Box 680, Townsville, for
the modest price of $1.30. We plan
to hold another weekend seminar
early in 1969.
John Anwyl
Chairman, Inter-racial
Citizens’ Committee
Townsville, Q.
Misleading New Zealand?
After having bought The Bulletin' for
about 25 years I have decided to cease.
My reason for doing so is that for
some time your articles on New
Zealand have been so misleading that
I have lost confidence in your maga-
zine. The last straw was the article
(8., October 26) saying that New
Zealanders were divided over sending
the All Blacks to South Africa. New
Zealanders are divided all right the
same way as a splinter divides a log.
Also, The Bulletin’s biased attitude
against Rhodesia and South Africa is
irritating.
J. M. Taylor
Wellington, N.Z.
Vietnam
My feelings on the war in Vietnam and
the people who have brought this
war about are the same as I would
feel with regard to any war, past,
present, or future. Sadness, and pity,
but not feelings of violence and
hatred. Mr. X. Learoy (8., November
9), I am sure must have the latter
feelings. Can he not see that these are
the very feelings that start wars, and
keep them going once the flame of
hatred has been kindled?
The city of Hanoi has 600,000 people
with a metropolitan area population of
about 1,100,000. If Mr. Learoy can
find any justification for the killing of
this vast number of people, then he
is far more depraved than even I
would have thought. When the Mr.
Learoys of this world have gone to
their just deserts, as much of a blow to
the Liberal Party and the RSL as this
may be, wars and violence will join
them in the annals of history.
M. J. McKenzie
Burwood, N.S.W.
Pro-Ord
Although “The End of the Ord” (8.,
November 2) was just the latest in a
recent series of at least four articles
in The Bulletin attacking the Ord
River scheme, perhaps as a sign of the
success of your peristence it would be
interesting to see one article reporting
the results obtained and conclusions
drawn by those conducting agricul-
tural research in the Ord area not
only on cotton but on the prospects
for other crops in the region.
It is, after all, extremely difficult to
believe that the Government of
Western Australia could have sup-
ported the Ord Scheme so strenuously
for so long without a reasonable basis
for confidence in its success.
Alan Eggleston
Busselton, W.A.
No woman's cover?
Your cover (8., November 9) made
me angry. I object to seeing a woman’s
back presented as a billboard. This
cover’s real message was: “No country
for women.”
Mrs. Atala Ladd
Templestowe, Vic.
Toothless tiger
As a toothless tiger, you were wise
to attack the ineffective, uninfluential
body of wowsers (8., November 9).
Further suitable . safe targets for you
would be pensioners and paraplegics.
G. Wockner
Thorncliffe, Q.
Australian nationalism
Australia what of her future in
the Commonwealth of Nations? One
was impressed by the challenging
analysis of Patrick Morgan (8.,
November 2) and his statement “the
false dawns of Australian nationalism.”
He raises issues with poetical quotations
from the poets and authors of the
past and today. Has not Australia an
image? Is she not a nation of worth
in the scheme of things? We are a
self-governing island continent freed
from the motherland, yet owing
allegiance to Britain. Our cultural
growth as it stands today is amazing
for a new nation even though
Australia is 188 years old. That also
applies to commerce and so forth,
notwithstanding the critics on the war-
path. One salutes the memory of our
brave-hearted pioneers from British
stock.
Andrew Millett
North Fitzroy, Vic.
As someone who, as a young man,
tasted the ashes of another arrogant
country’s nationalism, my only com-
ment on Patrick Morgan’s article is
may Australia never have a real
dawn, since nationalism inevitably leads
to false pride, the deadliest sin. What
do you think Australians have to be
proud of, anyway? They are mostly
ordinary, decent people in no way
extraordinary.
E. Schmidt
Noble Park, Vic.


>-
l
I
*
t
%
m
Come fly with PAL to the Philippines
Eastern hospitality
with a Spanish
accent. In English.
Manila, our home town, is your key to three
continents-and over 7,000 islands. You’ll
fall for the friendly Philippines. An inspired
blend of Asia, The South Seas, old Spain and
the modern West. Orchids grow wild in
Corregidor’s bomb-scarred tunnels. A centuries
old pirate outrigger spreads Op art sails.
And where else can you look down on an island
on a lake on an island on a lake on an island
in the ocean? We specialise in the unique.
Fly in on a big P. A.L. DC-8, any Monday or
Thursday. Stop as long as you like. Planes
leave Manila every day for just about
everywhere. Ask your travel agent.
It okyo
s
s
%
Taiwan
V
Hong
Honolulu
Kong
Manila
San Francisco
Singapore
Sydney
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
For schedules and tour information see your Travel Agent or write to P.A.L.,49 York Street. Sydney 2000.(29 4123); or 422 Collins Street, Melbourne 3000.(67 3414).
Ansett ANA General Sales Agents for Australia.
69.345


Golf I ournament.
mM
i
n*.
*-
:
*
as
i
.
;
V.
&
j®SS3j«
l§Bt|
mSmSm
mm Wm s *
#
craven
'whj&vw-
-0" *<s<;
»
71
k.ir-r
y yvv
*3
1 1
CRAVEN FILTER
belongs to the world of today
Playing the Wills Masters Golf Tournament in world class competition
is strictly for men of experience who have mastered the challenge of
golf. Similarly the makers of Craven Filter cigarettes have mastered
the challenge of blending a cigarette to satisfy people of experience
people with mature tastes. For these people Craven Filter belongs to
the world of today.
X791-2/68
